---
title: "Abomination of Desolation"
pdf: "abomination.pdf"
tableofcontents: true
description: 'In Matthew 24:15-20, our Lord Himself spoke of the 
  "abomination of desolation."'
template: topic.jade
---

In Matthew 24:15-20, our Lord Himself spoke of the “abomination of
desolation.” However, first let us note the different references to this
idol: there are actually two:

1. This one was of Zeus Olympus and was set up in the Holy of Holies by
Antiochus Epiphanes. It is referred to in Daniel 11:31.

2. This one will be the idol representing the king of the West during
the Tribulation. It, too, will be set up in the Temple in the Holy of
Holies. It is referred to in Daniel 9:27, Daniel 12:11, and in Matthew
24:15ff. It is also referred to 5 times in Revelation by the Apostle
John.

Now, Matthew 24:15-20 reads as follows: “So when you see standing in the
holy place ‘the abomination that causes desolation,’ spoken of through
the prophet Daniel – let the reader understand – then let those who are
in Judea flee to the mountains. Let no one on the roof of his house go
down to take anything out of the house. Let no one in the field go back
to get his cloak. How dreadful it will be in those days for pregnant
women and nursing mothers! Pray that your flight will not take place in
winter or on the Sabbath.”

The reference to Judea refers to Israel in the time of the Tribulation.
And “the mountains” to which they are to flee are the higher mountains
in Edom, Moab and Ammon; these mountains are named in Daniel 11:41. Once
the idol goes up in the Temple, and it will in the middle of the
Tribulation (3 and one-half years), then the believing Jews are to
immediately flee to the mountains.

“The one on the roof” refers to the person working in his/her garden;
this person is not to stop and come down from the roof to collect items
from his house. “The one in the field” is the person at work; this one
must not go back to his/her desk to get their jacket. They must leave
immediately. Hesitation will get them killed. And since pregnant women
and mothers with small children move more slowly than those without,
these women are to be doubly alert.

And then our Lord commands them to pray for the removal of obstacles to
traveling. They are to pray that their departure does not occur during
bad weather (winter) or during a holiday (sabbath). Because traveling
through mountains during storms is extremely hazardous, and traffic jams
are common on holidays.

Matthew 24:21 then goes on to say, “For at that time (from the idol
going up in the Temple till the end of the Tribulation) there will be
great, great tribulation (adversity), such as has not occurred from the
beginning of history, until this time; no, nor ever will occur.” Here,
then, our Lord states that the Tribulation will be a time of complete
and total lawlessness, violence, crime, rape, murder, pillage, plunder;
mankind will be animalistic.

Matthew 24:22 “And unless those days had been cut short (and they are),
no flesh would have been delivered; but because of the excellent ones
(the tribulational believers) those days will be cut short.”

God shortens the Tribulation only because of spiritually mature
believers existing at that future time. This is the “remnant according
to grace.”

Matthew 24:23 “At that time, if anyone communicates (lies and
propaganda) to you (those believers now hiding in the mountains), ‘Look,
here is the Christ!’ or, ‘There he is!’ do not believe it.” Here, our
Lord warns the future believers of Jerusalem that propaganda will be
disseminated to try to entice them out of the mountains. They must
remain true to the doctrines of Christ, and the true doctrine is that
darkness will cover the earth as He returns, and “every eye will see”
Him, including theirs. If they fall for the trick, they will return and
be killed.

Matthew 24:24 “For false Christs and false prophets will appear and
perform great signs and miracles to deceive even the elect – if that
were possible.” The “false Christs” refer to political leaders of that
time; and the “false prophets” refer to religious leaders.

Matthew 24:25 “See, I have told you ahead of time.” The future
generations alive during the Tribulation have the doctrines of Christ in
written form, as do we. If they study Scripture, they will know what to
do, when to do it, and will be able to discern the lies from the truth.
They will also know the circumstances of the Second Advent.

Matthew 24:27 “For as the lightning comes from the east and flashes to
the west, so will be the coming of the Son of Man.” Just as lightning
can be seen by all during a storm, so will be the Second Coming of our
Lord, Rev. 1:7. And just as lightning travels at great speeds, so the
Second Advent will come rapidly, Rev. 22:7,12. Thus, as lightning can
alarm the uneducated, so Christ’s return alarms unbelievers, Rev.
6:15-16. And the lightning that precedes a storm warns of what is to
come; so also will lightning warn of coming judgment and death at our
Lord’s return. [^1]

The title ‘Son of Man,’ of course, is the title of our Lord in His
hypostatic union, which is the essence of true God and the essence of
true man united in one Being.

[^1]: An extrapolation from the scholarship of Robert Thieme.
