---
title: "Abrahamic Covenant"
pdf: "abrahamiccovenant.pdf"
description: "\"I will bless those who bless you, and whoever curses you I will curse; and all peoples on earth will be blessed through you.\" This is the beginning of the covenant with Abram."
template: topic.jade
---

Genesis 12:1-3 reads, “The Lord had said to Abram, ’Leave your country,
your people and your fathers household and go to the land I will show
you. I will make you into a great nation and I will bless you; I will
make your name great, and you will be a blessing. I will bless those who
bless you, and whoever curses you I will curse; and all peoples on earth
will be blessed through you.” This is the beginning of the covenant with
Abram.

One portion of Shem’s descendants eventually moved into Ur of the
Chaldees which is present day Iraq. Even today, there still exist the
remains of a temple that was dedicated to the moon god, Nanna (su-en, in
Sumerian), and his wife, Nin-gal (the great lady). Ur of the Chaldees of
the ancient world was a sacred city, a city consecrated to the worship
of Nanna and Nin-gal. All the citizens of Ur were sacred servants of the
moon god.

Within this city, Terah, a descendant of Shem, lived and worked,
according to tradition, as an idol maker. Terah had three sons: Nahor,
Abram and Haran. Haran had a son called Lot before he died. Thus, Terah
and his family were moon worshippers. In some manner, the God of glory
revealed Himself to Abram in Ur of the Chaldees. At this point, God
commanded Abram to leave Ur. For having discovered the living God,
Elohim, Abram had to separate himself from the moon worshippers. Abram
responded to his God.

However, Abram was commanded to leave his family and his father behind,
for Terah had not believed in the revealed God. But Terah and Lot went
with Abram. Terah accompanied Abram perhaps because of family ties, but
more probably because of impulse. Lot accompanied Abram because part of
the promise from God included a child. Abram was seventy-five and Sarai
sixty-five at this time. Now why did not God select a young couple in
the prime of their sexuality? To demonstrate who and what He was and is,
“God specifically chose Abram and Sarai because they could not have
children. And this demonstrates that helplessness is the way to faith.”
[134] Thus, Abram carried Lot along to assist God in keeping His
promise, i.e., Abram thought he had discovered a reasonable method to
facilitate the fulfillment of the promise. For both Abram and Sarai were
unable to propagate due to the sexual decline of age.

As Abram traveled up the fertile crescent, Terah became lonely for his
god, Nanna. For this reason, they went to the city Haran rather than
Canaan. Eventually, Terah died in Haran. Then Abram went to Canaan.
Canaan was a land of idolatry and religious sexual perversions,
including bestiality and homosexuality. While in Canaan, Lot and Abram
were successful in business and both became wealthy. However, they
argued and went separate ways.

Abram at this juncture was discouraged; for he saw no hope of the
promise of a child being fulfilled. Then he has an idea: He decided to
adopt one of his servants, Eliezer. At this point, God again entered.
God said, in Genesis 15:4, “This man will not be your heir, but a son
coming from you own body will be your heir.” Here the blood covenant
between God and Abram is cut. Genesis 15:18-21 reads, “On that day the
Lord made a covenant with Abram and said, ‘To your descendants I give
this land, from the river of Egypt to the great river, the Euphrates:
the land of the Kenites, Kenizzites, Kadmonites, Hittites, Perizzites,
Rephaites, Amorites, Canaanites, Girgashites and Jebusites.’” Thus,
Abram became the covenant representative of all the descendants that
would come from him.

The other representative was God. Genesis 15:1 reads, “. . . Do not be
afraid Abram. I am your shield, your very great reward.” God here, then,
gave Himself as the sign of the covenant. For remember, each party of
the covenant would give an emblem of their strength. God has no physical
sword or physical shield to give. For God is God and does not carry or
require implements. Yet He gives Himself to Abram as a shield. This is
awesome, striking and grand in its implications. Remember, each
representative would then walk through the blood of the animals. Here,
though, God places Abram in a supernatural sleep; for Abram sees what
transpires.

God, as a great furnace of fire, moved through the pieces. This is God
walking through the halved carcasses of the slain animals and their
blood. God commands Abram to rest in Himself. For God takes the place of
both representatives in the covenant. God Himself took the place of
Abram! God took an oath by Himself “that in blessing I will bless you.”
God, then, is the sole representative. Thus, God entered into covenant
with Himself in Abrams behalf, and Abram became the inheritor of the
covenant. God took the initiative and Abram understood in faith. That is
all that Abram could do. For he is resting. Abram did absolutely nothing
but believe! The ramifications are extravagant, to say the least.

A question dramatically imposes itself in ones mind: Why would God do
such a thing? Hebrews 6:17-18 provides the answer: “Because God wanted
to make the unchanging nature of his purpose very clear to the heirs of
what was promised, he confirmed it with an oath. God did this so that,
by two unchangeable things in which it is impossible for God to lie, we
who have fled to take hold of the hope offered to us may be greatly
encouraged.” In other words, God performed this remarkable act to
demonstrate who He is, and how He operates: He is unconditional Love,
and He functions on the basis of grace. There is no linear logic, no
worded thought that can express what this implies to mankind. It can
only be acknowledged and felt.

The emotions of any believer should demand an explosive burst of fanfare
at this moment; one should stand, arms outspread and bellow in response
to Gods love and graciousness. This is irresistible, if one comprehends
it! Here is the definitive verdict! This is our inheritance from God. As
believers in the church age we have an even more intimate relationship
with God; for we are in Christ and He in us! For we are the bride of
Christ. We are wedded into the very family of God. [135]

Although Abram, at this juncture, had come to that point of rest in God
and response to Gods word, Abram still has much to learn about faith and
the essence of a promise from Yahweh. For when a famine descended upon
Canaan, Abram hurriedly left and traveled to Egypt. He failed to trust
God to provide for him in Canaan. Abram failed, but he is not a failure,
for his faith is growing and God is growing Abram up.

As they entered Egypt, Abram notified Sarai that since she was so
beautiful the King of Egypt would desire her for his own; thus, Abram
advised Sarai that she was to pretend that they were brother and sister
because Abram refused to risk death just because his wife was so
desirable. In effect, then, Abram morally abandoned his wife. Abram has
misunderstood the meaning of faith, and the meaning of the promise
concerning the son he is to beget. Abram defines the word promise as God
instructing him, Abram, in how to achieve the promise. Abram interpreted
this as you, Abram, must find a way to have a son. Abram did not
understand that God made the promise, therefore God must fulfill the
promise. The how is up to God and God’s omnipotence.

Sarai, too, has misunderstood the promise and its method of fulfillment.
She decides to help God. She presents Abram with a servant girl, and the
servant girl, Hagar, is to bear Abrams child. At the birth of the child,
the child was placed in Sarai’s lap which is a type of adoption, and
then Sarai presented the child to the Abram. This child, then, was to be
the fulfillment of the promise from God. This was Ishmael. Ishmael was
told that he was the covenant child, until he was thirteen years old.

At this juncture, Abram is ninety-nine and Sarai is eighty-nine, and
Abram has forgotten about the fulfillment of the promise, for he has the
son, Ishmael. Then God entered and reiterated the promise, but this time
God stated that Sarai would bear the child. At this point, Abram started
to laugh. A laugh that began deep in his belly and worked its way up to
a full blown bellowing guffaw. Have a son? Me and Sarai? Abram thought
God was crazy. God, as it were, laughed with Abram; for He declared that
Sarai that would have a child. They were to call the child Isaac which
means the sound of laughter. God laughed at human helplessness and
reasonable human attempts to resolve impossible obstacles. For with God,
nothing is impossible.

At this juncture, Abram had arrived at the position of total
helplessness. For God had allowed Abram and Sarai to try every possible
method of fulfilling the promise. Then, when every possible avenue had
been explored, and they were way too old to even think of ever having a
child of their own, then God said, “Now you are ready. Now you have no
one and nothing to trust in but Me.” Gods power, then, must now fulfill
the promise.

##CIRCUMCISION AND NAME CHANGE

Now God changes Abrams name. Remember, that in the ancient covenant
ritual each nation would alter its name to include the others name.
Abram meant exalted father. Abraham meant the father of a multitude.
This name change was a statement of faith. For to change your name to
the father of a multitude at age ninety-nine is either sheer insanity,
or sheer faith in the power of God to effect the name change.

It is interesting to note that the median sound of Yahweh is aha, and
that Abraham is formed by adding the aha, as is Sarah, being changed
from Sarai by changing the suffix. Yahweh Himself became known as the
God of Abraham. The covenant continues. [136]

From the physical and sexual death of Abraham and Sarah came life; in
other words, Abraham and Sarah had to be sexually and physically
resurrected to have a child. Again, a picture of the cross to come.
Yahweh swallowed up death through resurrected or, in this case
rejuvenated life. Just as Christ swallowed up the spiritual and physical
death of mankind on the cross and by means of resurrection.

The sign or seal of the covenant was circumcision, which is the cutting
away of the foreskin of the male phallus. At the juncture that this
cutting took place, Abraham was ninety-nine years of age. This cutting
or circumcision represented not only the sexual and physical
rejuvenation of Abraham, but also commemorated the establishment of a
new race, the Jews. Before the cutting, Abraham was an Akkadian, through
Shem. Remember, that Abraham was the representative of all that were in
him; thus every Jewish male thereafter was to be circumcised or he
living scar or seal of the covenant. Thus, every time a Jewish male
urinates, he is to be reminded of the covenant with God, the grace of
God, the promises of God, and Gods power to fulfill those promises. To
Abraham, Gods promise had more power and more meaning than his own
sexual impotence. Gods promise became more corporal to Abraham than the
reality of his physical existence.

It is interesting to note that circumcision was customary among many
ancient peoples: For the Egyptians it was a hygienic precaution; for the
Africans it represented a tribal initiation; to others it was used as a
substitute for human sacrifice, an offering to the gods. [137]

The prophet Jeremiah, in Jer. 6:10, reminded the Jews of the covenant
God that they had forgotten about: “To whom shall I communicate Gods
word? To whom shall I give a warning that they will listen? Behold,
their ears are uncircumcised. They will not listen. Behold, the word of
the Lord has become a reproach to them. They have no delight in it.”

Furthermore, in Jer. 9:25, God Himself attempted to remind the Jews of
the covenant: “Behold, the days are coming, decrees the Lord, that I
will punish all who are circumcised and yet uncircumcised.” In Deut.
10:16, “Circumcise your heart and resist no more.” According to Ex.
12:48, no Jew could participate in the Passover feast without having
been circumcised.

“The Hebrews deemed themselves invincible, the Chosen People, by virtue
of the Yahwic mark of a covenant cut in the sacred flesh of their
infancy.” [138 Indeed, the location where Joshua circumcised the Jewish
males in Canaan was thereafter “known as gilgil, the Circle, in allusion
to the denuded corona and circular scar of circumcision: And Yahweh said
to Joshua, This day I have rolled away the reproach of Egypt from you.”
[139]

Moreover, the phrase, bridegroom of blood, is the traditional name for
every newly circumcised Jewish infant. This phrase, chathan damim, has
it provenance in the words spoken by Moses wife, Zipporah, in Exodus
4:25, when she called him “a bloody bridegroom” and then abandoned him.

##THE COVENANT MEAL

Genesis 18 narrates the covenant meal. Three men arrived to Abraham’s
tent, one of which was the Lord or Jesus Christ. As the meal took place,
Sarah was secreted, listening from behind the curtain to what was taking
place. Remember, Sarah is about ninety years old. The Lord declared, “I
will surely return to you about this time next year, and Sarah your wife
will have a son. Now Sarah was listening at the entrance to the tent,
which was behind him. Abraham and Sarah were already old and well
advanced in years and Sarah was past the age of childbearing. So Sarah
laughed to herself as she thought, After I am worn out and my master is
old, will I now have this pleasure? Then the Lord said to Abraham, Why
did Sarah laugh and say, Will I really have a child, now that I am old?”
(Genesis 18:10-13)

And Hebrews 11:11 states, “By faith even Sarah herself received ability
to conceive, even beyond the proper time of life, since she considered
Him faithful who had promised;” So Abraham and Sarah came to believe in
Gods promise and His power. For this to occur, i.e., the physical
rejuvenation necessary for pregnancy, Sarah would have had to become
young once again. And, indeed, she did. For in Genesis 20, Abraham again
ventured into Egypt, Gerar to be specific, and again Abraham stated that
Sarah was his sister. And because she was so beautiful, King Abimelech
took her. In other words, a woman of about ninety-five years of age has
been so restored to youth, that she is the most beautiful woman in
Egypt.

Isaac was the first born son of Abraham and Jesus Christ was the last.
Yahweh God, has laughed at mankind’s helplessness.

##PROVISIONS OF THE ABRAHAMIC COVENANT

The Abrahamic Covenant constantly refers to the land and Abraham’s
"descendants. The term for descendants may also be translated seed. Who,
then, are the descendants of Abraham? All of the Semitic peoples would
certainly be included in this term, including the Arabs. However, the
covenant refers to a specific group; for God is selective.

Isaac had two sons: Esau and Jacob. However, Jacob is the bearer of the
promise. Jacob emerges into twelve tribes, but only one of those tribes
is the specific bearer of the covenant promise: Judah. The promise would
come through Judah, and His name shall be Shiloh, which means the worthy
one.

So within Israel there comes to be a remnant. There is, of course, the
collective Israel, those who descended from Abraham; but there are also
those who are like Abraham. This group consists of those who have faith
in God and the promise. The remnant are those who are the true Israel,
those who have faith. They have a faith, a heart that comes from God;
and true Israel also has the blood of Abraham in their veins.

Matthew 3:9 reads, “And do not think you can say to yourselves, We have
Abraham as our father. I tell you that out of these stones God can raise
up children for Abraham.” John the Baptist told Israel that they were
not true Israel. In other words, John the Baptist said prove that you
are the children of Abraham and do the works of Abraham, i.e., have
faith. John 8:33-44a reads, “They answered him, We are Abraham’s
descendants and have never been slaves of anyone. How can you say that
we shall be set free? Jesus replied, I tell you the truth, everyone who
sins is a slave to sin… If you were Abraham’s children, said Jesus, then
you would do the things Abraham did… You belong to your father, the
devil, and you want to carry out your fathers desire.” Our Lord, then,
is stating that these Jews are Israelites, they are the descendants of
Abraham, but they are not really true Israel, even though the blood of
Abraham flows in their veins. So a very fine distinction is being drawn.

In Luke 19:9, our Lord made the following statement: “Jesus said to him,
Today salvation has come to this house, because this man, too, is a son
of Abraham.” Thus, Christ said that Zacchaeus heart was like Abraham’s:
a lifestyle of love and of salvation and faith.

And Paul, in Romans 2:28-29, said, “A man is not a Jew if he is only one
outwardly, nor is circumcision merely outward and physical. No, a man is
a Jew if he is one inwardly; and circumcision is circumcision of the
heart, by the Spirit, not by the written code. Such a mans praise is not
from men, but from God.” Paul said, then, that a real Jew is one by
faith like Abraham.

Gal. 3:6-7 states, “Consider Abraham: He believed God, and it was
credited to him as righteousness. Understand, then, that those who
believe are children of Abraham.” A son of Abraham, then, has nothing to
do with the blood in ones veins, but everything to do with what is in
the heart.

Then, in Gal. 3:26, 27, 29 Paul is speaking to Jews and Gentiles: “You
are all sons of God through faith in Christ Jesus, for all of you who
were baptized into Christ have clothed yourselves with Christ. If you
belong to Christ, then you are Abraham’s seed, and heirs according to
the promise.” Who, then, is a descendant of Abraham? Anyone who believes
in Christ. Thus, anyone who believes in Christ is an heir of the promise
that God made to Abraham.” Paul is insisting, then, that the covenant is
for both Jew and Gentile.

Who is the seed? Gal. 3:16 provides the answer: “The promises were
spoken to Abraham and to his seed. He does not say and to seeds, meaning
many people, but and to your seed, meaning one person, who is Christ.”
Christ is the seed. All those in Him become the descendants of Abraham.
So what does that make you, the reader? If you are in Christ, a
believer, then you are related directly back to Abraham, and you are
true Israel or Abraham’s offspring. Not by blood, but by faith. Thus, in
effect, you are on every page of the Bible. Again, not by blood, but by
faith.

So all those in Christ are blessed. And the word blessing means
empowered, and successful in body, mind, spirit and thought. Thus, when
the church age believer is filled with the Holy Spirit, this believer is
blessed or empowered with success in every way. For “through you
(Abraham) all nations of the world will be blessed.” (Gen. 12:3)

For Gal. 3:13, 14 states plainly, “Christ redeemed us from the curse of
the Law by becoming a curse for us, for it is written: ‘Cursed is
everyone who is hung on a tree.’ He redeemed us in order that the
blessing given to Abraham might come to the Gentiles through Christ
Jesus, so that by faith we might receive the promise of the Spirit.” So
your receiving of the Holy Spirit was the promise that God promised to
Abraham in Genesis 12. Then, when you believe in Christ, you are an heir
of the promise. Thus, you also may be like Abraham and walk with God,
and express and receive agape love. So if you are in Christ, then you
are in the real family of God, a descendant of Abraham. Again, not by
blood, but by faith.

What of the "land? When Adam fell, he ceded rulership of the earth to
Satan. However, when the end comes, man will again be lord of the earth.
Thus, the land becomes salient of what is to come. The land is a shadow
of something to come. The receiving of the land was part of a covenant;
Deut. 5:32, 33, state that if the covenant was obeyed they would live
long in the land. Deut. 6:3, states that if they obey God, they will
live in the land. Deut. 8:19, 20, state that if they fall into idolatry,
they will lose the land. Deut. 11:13-15, state that if they obey, then
good weather will be theirs, if not, they will perish from the land.
Thus, the land was conditioned by obedience. The land was a reflection
of their hearts. They could not sin against God and stay in the land.
For the land is conditional; for the land is that place where faith in
God exists and persists. Thus, when the Jews became apostate, they began
to lose the land; for, again, it is a land of faith.

And Romans 4:13 states that Abraham was to inherit the whole world. And
according to Hebrews 11:10, Abraham was looking beyond the land to the
city that God would build. God, then, gave Abraham the land in a
geographical sense, but Abraham saw beyond the shadow land, the
geographical land, to the new heaven and the new earth. Remember, the
land was given to Abraham as an everlasting possession. This, then,
would be a land in Gods scope, and of Gods making. Thus, Abraham finally
understood Gods promise. He saw the everlasting aspect of the promise;
and he looked forward to the real land that was promised, not just the
physical and geographical land of Canaan. Abraham saw beyond the shadow
land, the one made of dust and dirt, to the land that was promised. For
the covenant spoke of a covenant land, a heavenly land.

The geographical and physical/shadow land of the covenant was given to
Israel, according to Joshua 21:44, 45 and II Chronicles 8:7, 8. Yet the
real land of the promise, the heavenly land, the everlasting land, was
that which Abraham saw in the future. For this reason, he lived in a
tent, because he believed in the promise of God, and he believed that
what God had promised, He is able to do. Thus, those scholars that
maintain that the land portion of the covenant has yet to be fulfilled
are correct, as long as they comprehend that the portion that remains to
be fulfilled is the everlasting portion. And Abraham saw this, and
believed it.

The everlasting city or land that Abraham awaited is the New Jerusalem
of Revelation 21. This Holy City is described as a “city in the clouds,”
[140] one that hangs above the earth. This holy city is that one made by
God, and it is specifically for the Jews, those that comprise the true
Israel which are Jews by blood and by faith. For it is the fulfillment
of the Abrahamic Covenant. This is why Abraham resided in a tent while
living here on earth; for Abraham knew that his permanent residence, the
everlasting aspect of his covenant with God, was still to come.

Abraham’s inheritance of the whole world, found in Galatians 3:29,
refers to the inheritance of Abraham’s seed, i.e., those who though not
Jewish by blood, are Abraham’s seed by faith. These, then, will inherit
the new earth of Rev. 21:1, which reads, “Then I saw a new heaven and a
new earth, for the first heaven and the first earth had passed away; and
there was no longer any sea.”