---
title: "Acts, Survey"
pdf: "acts_survey.pdf"
description: "a survey of the Acts of the Apostles."
template: topic.jade
---

**Survey of the Acts of the Apostles**

## Author and Title

Although the author is unnamed in Acts, the evidence leads to the
conclusion that the author was Luke. Acts is the second volume of a
two-part treatise written by Luke to Theophilus about “all that Jesus
began to do and teach.” In support of Luke as the author, Ryrie writes:

That the author of Acts was a companion of Paul is clear from the
passages in the book in which “we” and “us” are used (16:10-17;
20:5-21:18; 27:1-28:16). These sections themselves eliminate known
companions of Paul other than Luke, and Colossians 4:14 and Philemon 24
point affirmatively to Luke, who was a physician. The frequent use of
medical terms also substantiates this conclusion (1:3; 3:7ff.; 9:18, 33;
13:11; 28:1-10). Luke answered the Macedonian call with Paul, was in
charge of the work at Philippi for about six years, and later was with
Paul in Rome during the time of Paul’s house arrest. It was probably
during this last period that the book was written. If it were written
later it would be very difficult to explain the absence of mentioning
such momentous events as the burning of Rome, the martyrdom of Paul, or
the destruction of Jerusalem.

Regarding the title, all available Greek manuscripts designate it by the
title *Praxeis*, “Acts,” or by the title, “The Acts of the Apostles.”
Just how or why it received this title is uncertain. Actually, “The Acts
of the Apostles” is perhaps not the most accurate title since it does
not contain the acts of all the apostles. Only Peter and Paul are really
emphasized, though the promise of the coming of the Spirit was made to
all the apostles in Acts 1:2-8 who were then to go into all the world
preaching the gospel in the power of the Spirit (however, see 4:32).
Many have felt that the book would be more accurately titled, “The Acts
of the Holy Spirit” since it describes the spread of Christianity from
the time of the coming of the Spirit in Acts 2 as promised in Acts 1:8.

## Date: A.D. 61

The issues regarding the dating of the book are summarized by Stanley
Toussaint as follows:

The writing of Acts must have taken place before the destruction of
Jerusalem in ad 70. Certainly an event of such magnitude would not have
been ignored. This is especially true in light of one of the basic
themes of the book: God’s turning to the Gentiles from the Jews because
of the Jews’ rejection of Jesus Christ.

Luke scarcely would have omitted an account of Paul’s death,
traditionally dated from ad 66-68, if it had occurred before he wrote
Acts.

Nor did Luke mention the Neronian persecutions which began after the
great fire of Rome in AD 64.

Furthermore, a defense of Christianity before Nero by using the Book of
Acts to appeal to what lower officials had ruled regarding Paul would
have had little point at the time of the Neronian antagonism. At that
time Nero was so intent on destroying the church, the defense set forth
in Acts would have had little effect in dissuading him.

The date usually accepted by conservative scholars for the writing of
Acts is around AD 60-62. Accordingly the place of writing would be Rome
or possibly both Caesarea and Rome. At the time of writing, Paul’s
release was either imminent or had just taken place.

## Theme and Purpose

The book of Acts stands out as unique among the New Testament books for
it alone provides a bridge for the other books of the New Testament. As
Luke’s second treatise, Acts continues what Jesus “began to do and to
teach” (1:1) as recorded in the Gospels. It begins with Christ’s
Ascension and continues to the period of the New Testament Epistles. In
it we have the continuation of the ministry of Jesus Christ through the
Holy Spirit at work in the apostles who went forth preaching and
establishing the church, the body of Christ. Acts is the historical link
between the Gospels and the Epistles.

Not only does it make this bridge for us, but it provides an account of
the life of Paul and gives us the historical occasion for his letters.
In the process, Acts recounts the first 30 years of the life of the
church. After summarizing various views on the purpose of Acts,
Toussaint writes:

The purpose of the Book of Acts may be stated as follows: To explain
with the Gospel of Luke the orderly and sovereignly directed progress of
the kingdom message from Jews to Gentiles, and from Jerusalem to Rome.
In Luke’s Gospel the question is answered, “If Christianity has its
roots in the Old Testament and in Judaism, how did it become a worldwide
religion?” The Book of Acts continues in the vein of the Gospel of Luke
to answer the same problem.

Acts 1:8 expresses the theme of Acts—the indwelling Holy Spirit
empowering God’s people to be the Savior’s witnesses both in Jerusalem
(home base), and in all Judea and Samaria (the immediate and surrounding
areas), and even to the remotest part of the earth (the world).

## Key Word

The key concept for Acts would be *the growth of the Church in all the
world.*

Two key words are “witness” or “witnesses,” and “the Holy Spirit.”

## Key Verses

**1:8** “But you will receive power when the Holy Spirit has come on
you, and you will be my witnesses in Jerusalem, and in all Judea and
Samaria, and to the farthest parts of the earth.”

**2:42-47**They were devoting themselves to the apostles’ teaching and
to fellowship, to the breaking of bread and to prayers. **2:43**
Reverential awe came on everyone, and many wonders and miraculous signs
came about by the apostles. **2:44** All who believed were together and
held everything in common, **2:45** and they began selling their
property and possessions and distributing the proceeds to everyone, as
anyone had need. **2:46** Every day they continued to gather together by
common consent in the temple courts, breaking bread from house to house,
sharing their food with glad and humble hearts, **2:47** praising God
and having the good will of all the people. And the Lord was adding to
their number every day those who were being saved.

## Key Chapters

Since the accomplishment of the church’s global mission of worldwide
outreach is dependent on the coming of the Holy Spirit, **chapter 2** is
naturally the key chapter. This chapter records the fulfillment of 1:8
on the Day of Pentecost when the Holy Spirit came and began His ministry
of baptizing believers into Christ’s body, the church (cf. 1:5; 11:15-16
with 1 Cor. 12:13), began indwelling all believers and empowering them
to be witnesses of the Savior.

## Key People

Key people include: Peter, Stephen, Philip, James, Barnabas and Paul.

## Outline

Acts can be naturally outlined around Acts 1:8, the spread of the gospel
from Jerusalem to Judea and Samaria, and to the uttermost part of the
earth.

### I. The Witness in Jerusalem (1:1-6:7)

  A. The Expectation of the Chosen (1:1-2:47) *Progress report no. 1:*“And
  the Lord added to their number daily those who were being saved” (2:47).

  B. The Expansion of the Church in Jerusalem (3:1-6:7) *Progress report
  no. 2:*“So the Word of God spread. The number of disciples in Jerusalem
  increased rapidly” (6:7).

### II. The Witness in all Judea and Samaria (6:8-9:31)

  A. The Martyrdom of Stephen (6:8-8:1a)

  B. The Arrest of Stephen (6:8-7:1)

  C. The Address of Stephen (7:2-53)

  D. The Attack on Stephen (7:54-8:1a)

  E. The Ministry of Philip (8:1b-40)

  F. The Message of Saul (9:1-31)

  G. The Conflicts of Saul (9:19b-31) *Progress report no. 3:*“Then the
  church throughout Judea, Galilee, and Samaria . . . was strengthened;
  and [it was] encouraged by the Holy Spirit, it grew in numbers, living
  in the fear of the Lord” (9:31).

### III. The Witness to the Extremity of the Earth (9:32-28:31)

  A. The extension of the church to Antioch (9:32-12:24) *Progress report
  no. 4:*“But the Word of God continued to increase and spread” (12:24).

  B. The extension of the church in Asia Minor (12:25-16:5) *Progress
  report no. 5:*“So the churches were strengthened in the faith and grew
  daily in numbers” (16:5).

  C. The extension of the church in the Aegean area (16:6-19:20) *Progress
  report no. 6:*“In this way the Word of the Lord spread widely and grew
  in power” (19:20).

  D. The extension of the church to Rome (19:21-28:31) *Progress report
  no. 7:*“Paul . . . welcomed all who came to see him. Boldly and without
  hindrance he preached the kingdom of God and taught about the Lord Jesus
  Christ” (28:30-31).

