---
title: "Agriculture in Palestine"
pdf: "agriculturepalestine.pdf"
description: "Israelites learned farming during 400 years in Egypt. Description of farming practices and OT laws regulating them."
tableOfContents: true
template: topic.jade
---

The Israelites learned farming during their 400 years in Egypt. Abraham,
Isaac, and Jacob had been herdsmen, but the people under Moses and
Joshua were mainly agrarian. They were prepared to make cultivation of
the soul their main occupation in the land of promise.

The allotment of the land to tribes and families was on the
understanding that all land was actually owned by Jehovah; so the soil
could not be sold, given, or bequeathed to anyone outside the family
except under special circumstances. The land reverted to the owner in
the year of jubilee.

In a community, each portion of the land was marked off and divided
according to the various products to be grown. Walls and hedges
protected against animals. The land was burned off to destroy weeds.
Ashes and manure were spread and the land was plowed with wooden plows
pulled by oxen or donkeys. The ground was cleared of stones and thorns
early in the year, and sowing among thorns was taken as a sign of a lazy
farmer.

The plow was followed by men using hoes to break up the clods. In later
times a harrow of sorts was used, usually in the form of a thick block
of wood held down by the weight of a stone or a man. Seed was usually
sown and harrowed in at the same time.

## Crops

The principal crops of Palestine were wheat and barley. The Bible also
mentions lentils, flax, cucumbers, melons, beans, etc. Hay was not used,
so cattle ate barley with chopped wheat or barley straw.

The sowing of crops began after the Feast of Tabernacles (end of
October, beginning of November), about when autumn rains were due. Crops
for summer and fall harvest were planted in January and February.

Harvest began with barley, which ripens in Palestine two or three weeks
before wheat. The law stipulated that harvest was to begin on the 16th
Nisan. The month of Nisan corresponds to the period of March 15 to April
15 on our calendar.

## Events of the Month of Nisan

Day 1
:    Fast for Nadab and Abihu

Day 10
:    Selection of paschal lamb (the lamb to be used in Passover; fast for
     Miriam and in memory of the scarcity of water in the wilderness

Day 14
:    Paschal lamb is killed in the evening, Passover begins

Day 15
:    First day of unleavened bread. After sunset a sheaf of barley is
     brought to the temple.

Day 16
:    First fruits sheaf offered; harvest begins; from this date it is
     fifty days until the Feast of Pentecost.

Day 22
:    Close of Passover; end of unleavened bread

Day 26
:    Fast for the death of Joshua

## Harvest

Grain was harvested with a sickle, although it was known that grain was
harvested by pulling up the roots to preserve all the straw. The cut
grain was gathered in the arms, bound into sheaves, and laid in heaps to
be threshed.

Threshing floors were placed in the open air, leveled and tramped hard,
usually on elevated ground so that in the winnowing process the wind
might carry away the chaff.

Threshing was done by oxen driven over the grain to tread out the
kernels with their hooves. Sometimes machines were used made with planks
which dragged across the threshing floor.

Winnowing was done in the evening when there were more breezes. The mass
of chaff, straw, and grain was tossed into the air with shovels so that
the chaff might be blown away. The chaff and stubble in the fields were
burned. The grain was sifted and stored.

## Caring for the Land

Israel owed its possession of the land to God. It’s fertility was also
in God’s hands. The Lord made a number of provisions in the Law to care
for the land.

*   Sabbath rest was to be observed

*   Soil was to lie fallow on the seventh year and in the 50th year

*   It was forbidden to yoke an ox and a donkey together, since an ox
    was a clean animal and the donkey was ceremonially unclean.

*   It was forbidden to sow with mingled seed or with seed on which the
    carcass of a forbidden animal had lain.

    Topic: Uncleanness in the Levitical System

*   The corners of the field were not to be reaped, and gleanings were
    to be left for the poor to gather

*   The first fruits of all crops belonged to Jehovah in recognition of
    His being the giver of all good things.

*   The fruit of the orchard was not eaten for the first three years. On
    the fourth year, the produce was consecrated to God. The first
    eating by men was in the fifth year.

Every facet of the everyday work of the Israelite was a teaching
mechanism for divine viewpoint. The faithful Jew had the opportunity to
live every moment of every day as “unto the Lord”. There would then be
rich fruit in the soul as well as from the soil.

