---
title: "Alexandria"
pdf: "alexandria.pdf"
description: "City in Egypt founded by Alexander the Great. Birthplace of Apollos. Work site for the Septuagint version of the Old Testament."
template: lesson.jade
---


**Alexandria 3**

Alexandria
==========

from an article in the Thompson Chain Reference Bible.

**Alexandria** the birthplace of Apollos, was founded by Alexander the
Great in 331 BC. Its palaces of the Ptolemies, its wonderful museum, its
famed library, and it keenly intellectual populace of Greeks, Jews, and
Egyptians made it one of the greatest intellectual and cultural centers
of the Roman Empire.

The Septuagint version of the Old Testament (280 to 170 BC) was written
at Alexandria, and here, during the first century, lived Philo Judaeus,
a brilliant and devout Jew, whose writings on the Logos were in certain
respects similar to those of John the Beloved.

Alexandria – Encyclopedia Britannica

Arabic AL-ISKANDARIYAH city and urban muhafazah (governorate), Lower
Egypt. Once the greatest city of the ancient world and a centre of
Hellenic scholarship and science, Alexandria was the capital of Egypt
from its founding by Alexander the Great in 332 BC to AD 642, when it
was subdued by the Arabs. It is now the second largest city, the centre
of a major industrial region, and the chief seaport of Egypt. It lies on
the Mediterranean Sea at the western edge of the Nile River delta, about
114 miles (183 km) northwest of Cairo.

Alexandria has always occupied a special place in the popular
imagination by virtue of its association with Alexander and with Mark
Antony and Cleopatra. Alexandria also played a key role in passing on
Hellenic culture to Rome and was a centre of scholarship in the
theological disputes over the nature of Christ’s divinity that divided
the early church. The legendary reputation of ancient Alexandria grew
through a thousand years of serious decline following the Arab
conquests, during which time virtually all traces of the Greco-Roman
city disappeared. By the time Napoleon invaded Egypt in 1798, Alexandria
had been reduced to a fishing village. The modern city and port that
flourished on the back of the cotton boom in the 19th century has,
therefore, little in common with the Alexandria of the past.

The free port status granted Alexandria by the Ottoman Turks accentuated
the cultural ambivalence inherent in the city’s location–extended along
a spit of land with its back to Egypt and its face to the Mediterranean.
This idea of a free city, open to all manner of men and ideas, was
something the new Alexandria had in common with the old. It was a theme
the Greek writer Constantine Cavafy, drawing heavily on its legendary
past, developed in his poems of the city. This idea of Alexandria, and
Cavafy’s take on it in particular, was highlighted by the English writer
Lawrence Durrell in his four-part novel, The Alexandria Quartet
(1957-60).

The city site

The modern city extends 25 miles (40 km) east to west along a limestone
ridge, 1-2 miles (1.6-3.2 km) wide, that separates the salt lake of
Maryut, or Mareotis–now partly drained and cultivated–from the Egyptian
mainland. An hourglass-shaped promontory formed by the silting up of a
mole (the Heptastadium), which was built soon after Alexandria’s
founding, links the island of Pharos with the city centre on the
mainland. Its two steeply curving bays now form the basins for the
Eastern Harbor and the Western Harbor.

The prevailing north wind, blowing across the Mediterranean, gives
Alexandria a markedly different climate from that of the desert
hinterland. The summers are relatively temperate, although humidity can
build up in July and in August, the hottest month, when the average
temperature reaches 87 ºF (31 ºC). Winters are cool and invariably
marked by a series of violent storms that can bring torrential rain and
even hail. The mean daily temperature in January, which is the coldest
month, is 64 ºF (18 ºC).

The city plan

Designed by Alexander’s personal architect, Dinocrates, the city
incorporated the best in Hellenic planning and architecture. Within a
century of its founding, its splendors rivaled anything known in the
ancient world. The pride of ancient Alexandria and one of the Seven
Wonders of the World was the great lighthouse, the Pharos of Alexandria,
which stood on the eastern tip of the island of Pharos. Reputed to be
more than 350 feet (110 meters) high, it was still standing in the 12th
century. In 1477, however, the sultan Qa’it Bay used stones from the
dilapidated structure to build a fort (named for him), which stands near
or on the original site of the Pharos. In 1994 archaeologist Jean-Yves
Empereur of the Centre for Alexandrian Studies (Centre d’Etudes
Alexandrines) found many of the stones and some statuary that had
belonged to the lighthouse in the waters off Pharos Island. The Egyptian
government planned to turn the area into an underwater park to allow
divers to see the archaeological remains of the lighthouse.

The Canopic Way (now Al-Hurriyah Avenue) was the principal thoroughfare
of the Greek city, running east and west through its centre. Most of the
Ptolemaic and, later, Roman monuments stood nearby. The Canopic Way was
intersected at its western end by the Street of the Soma (now An-Nabi
Danyal Street), along which is the legendary site of Alexander’s tomb,
thought to lie under the mosque An-Nabi Danyal. Close to this
intersection was the Mouseion (museum), the city’s academy of arts and
sciences, which included the great Library of Alexandria. At the seaward
end of the Street of the Soma were the two obelisks known as Cleopatra’s
Needles. These obelisks were given in the 19th century to the cities of
London and New York. One obelisk can be viewed on the banks of the River
Thames in London and the other in Central Park in New York City.

Between Al-Hurriyah Avenue and the railway station is the Roman Theatre,
which was uncovered in 1959 at the Kawm al-Dikkah archaeological site.
At the southwestern extremity of the ancient city are the Kawm
ash-Shuqafah burial grounds, with their remarkable Hadrianic catacombs
dating from the 2nd century AD. Nearby, on the site of the ancient fort
of Rakotis, is one of the few classical monuments still standing: the
88-foot- (27-metre-) high marble column known as Pompey’s Pillar
(actually dedicated to Diocletian soon after 297). Parts of the Arab
wall, encompassing a much smaller area than the Greco-Roman city,
survive on Al-Hurriyah Avenue, but the city contracted still further in
Ottoman times to the stem of the promontory, now the Turkish Quarter. It
is the oldest surviving section of the city, housing its finest mosques
and worst slums.

The decline of the Ptolemies in the 2nd and 1st centuries BC was matched
by the rise of Rome. Alexandria played a major part in the intrigues
that led to the establishment of imperial Rome.

It was at Alexandria that Cleopatra, the last of the Ptolemies, courted
Julius Caesar and claimed to have borne him a son. Her attempts at
restoring the fortunes of the Ptolemaic dynasty, however, were thwarted
by Caesar’s assassination and her unsuccessful support of Mark Antony
against Caesar’s great-nephew Octavian. In 30 BC Octavian (later the
emperor Augustus) formally brought Alexandria and Egypt under Roman
rule. To punish the city for not supporting him, he abolished the
Alexandrian Senate and built his own city at what was then the suburb of
ar-Raml. Alexandria, however, could not be ignored, since it held the
key to the Egyptian granary on which Rome increasingly came to rely; and
the city soon regained its independence.

St. Mark, the traditional author of the second Synoptic Gospel, is said
to have been preaching in Alexandria in the mid-1st century AD.
Thenceforth, the city’s growing Christian and Jewish communities united
against Rome’s attempts to impose official paganism. Periodic
persecutions by various early emperors, especially by Diocletian
beginning in 303, failed to subdue these communities; and, after the
empire had formally adopted Christianity under Constantine I, the stage
was set for schisms within the church.

The first conflict that split the early church was between two
Alexandrian prelates, Athanasius and Arius, over the nature of Christ’s
divinity. It was settled in 325 by the adoption of the Creed of Nicaea,
which affirmed Christ’s spiritual divinity and branded Arianism–the
belief that Christ was lower than God–as heresy. Arianism, however, had
many imperial champions, and this sharpened the conflict between the
Alexandrian church and the state. In 391 Christians destroyed the
Sarapeum, sanctum of the Ptolemaic cult and what Cleopatra had saved of
the great Mouseion library. In 415 a Christian faction killed the
Neoplatonist philosopher Hypatia, and Greek culture in Alexandria
quickly declined.

After the ascendancy of the patriarchate of Constantinople–to which the
see of Alexandria answered after the division of the Roman Empire in
364–the local church adopted Monophysitism (belief in the single nature
and therefore physical divinity of Christ) as a way of asserting its
independence. Although Monophysitism was rejected by the Council of
Chalcedon (451), the Alexandrian church resisted Constantinople’s
attempts to bring it into line. An underground church developed to
oppose the established one and became a focus of Egyptian loyalties.
Disaffection with Byzantine rule created the conditions in which
Alexandria fell first to the Persians, in 616, and then to the Arabs, in
642.

The Islamic period

The Arabs occupied Alexandria without resistance. Thenceforth, apart
from an interlude in 645 when the city was briefly taken by the
Byzantine fleet, Alexandria’s fortunes were tied to the new faith and
culture emanating from the Arabian Desert. Alexandria soon was eclipsed
politically by the new Arab capital at al-Fustat (which later was
absorbed into the modern capital, Cairo), and this city became the
strategic prize for those wanting to control Egypt. Nevertheless,
Alexandria continued to flourish as a trading centre, principally for
textiles and luxury goods, as Arab influence expanded westward through
North Africa and then into Europe. The city also was important as a
naval base, especially under the Fatimids and the Mamluks, but already
it was contracting in size in line with its new, more modest status. The
Arab walls (rebuilt in the 13th and 14th centuries and torn down in
1811) encompassed less than half the area of the Greco-Roman city.

Alexandria survived the early Crusades relatively unscathed, and the
city came into its own again with the development of the East-West spice
trade, which Egypt monopolized. The loss of this trade–which came about
after the discovery of the sea route to India in 1498 and the Turkish
conquest of Egypt in 1517–was the final blow to the city’s fortunes.
Under Turkish rule the canal linking Alexandria to the Rosetta branch of
the Nile was allowed to silt up, strangling the city’s commercial
lifeline. Alexandria had been reduced to a small fishing village when
Napoleon invaded Egypt in 1798.

Alexandria, School of

the first Christian institution of higher learning, founded in the
mid-2nd century AD in Alexandria, Egypt. Under its earliest known
leaders (Pantaenus, Clement, and Origen), it became a leading centre of
the allegorical method of biblical interpretation, espoused a
rapprochement between Greek culture and Christian faith, and attempted
to assert orthodox Christian teachings against heterodox views in an era
of doctrinal flux. Opposing the School of Alexandria was the School of
Antioch, which emphasized the literal interpretation of the Bible.

