---
title: "Amorites"
pdf: "amorites.pdf"
description: "The name Amorite is used in the OT to denote (1) the inhabitants of Palestine generally, (2) the population of the hills as opposed to the plain, and (3) a specific people under a king of their own."
tableOfContents: false
template: topic.jade
---

from International Standard Bible Encyclopedia

I. In the Old Testament
-----------------------

The name Amorite is used in the OT to denote (1) the inhabitants of
Palestine generally, (2) the population of the hills as opposed to the
plain, and (3) a specific people under a king of their own. Thus (1) we
hear of them on the west shore of the Dead Sea (Gen. 14:7), at Hebron
(Gen. 14:13), and Shechem (Gen. 48:22), in Gilead and Bashan (Dt. 3:10),
and under Hermon (Dt. 3:8; 4:48). They are named instead of the
Canaanites as the inhabitants of Palestine whom the Israelites were
required to exterminate (Gen. 15:16; Dt. 20:17; Jgs. 6:10; 1 S. 7:14; 1
K. 21:26; 2 K. 21:11); the older population of Judah is called Amorite
in Josh. 10:5f, in conformity with which Ezk. 16:3 states that Jerusalem
had an Amorite father; and the Gibeonites are said to have been “of the
remnant of the Amorites” (2 S. 21:2). On the other hand (2) in Nu. 13:29
the Amorites are described as dwelling in the mountains like the
Hittites and Jebusites of Jerusalem, while the Amalekites or bedouin
lived in the south and the Canaanites on the seacoast and in the valley
of the Jordan. Lastly (3) we hear of Sihon, “king of the Amorites,” who
had conquered the northern half of Moab (Nu. 21:21–31; Dt. 2:26–35).
While nonbiblical evidence on the subject is lacking and biblical
evidence faces notable difficulties, it appears certain that the
scriptural use of the word depends on the general Syro-Palestinian
pattern of the end of the 2nd millennium.

II. In Mesopotamia and the Ancient Near East
--------------------------------------------

*A. Varying Use of the Name*Amorites appear first in Mesopotamia in a
divinatory text of the time of Sargon I (ca 2360–2305). There they are a
nomadic people, possibly from the northwestern hill countries, but more
likely (so Dossin) from the western deserts (kur-mar-tu=the desert
countries). The name (“the Westerners”) is therefore a purely
geographical indication of their immediate origins, from the perspective
of Mesopotamia, and conveys no information about their ethnic
composition or their real name. The highly civilized Sumerians
considered them as barbarians. The name is used also for the
northwestern countries: Syria, Lebanon, and Palestine; the Mediterranean
appears sometimes as the “Sea of Amurru.”

*B. Early Amorite Kingdoms and Nomads in Syria and Mesopotamia*Between
the 23rd and 21st cents b.c. the Amorites penetrated into Babylonia,
where, after the fall of the 3rd Dynasty of Ur (ca 1950), they settled
down. Thereafter Northwest Semitic dynasties ruled over Larsa (ca
1961–1699), Isin (ca 1958–1733), Mari (until 1693), and Babylon (ca
1830–1531, the 1st Dynasty of Babylon), further in Syria over Aleppo,
Qatna, Alalakh, etc., showing a consistent ethnic and institutional
pattern from Mesopotamia to Syria. Evidence comes also from the Egyptian
Execration Texts (19th–18th cents see ANET, pp. 328ff) and from a list
showing the presence of Amorite slaves in Egypt (18th cent). The end of
Amorite rule came after the conquest and sack of Babylon ca 1531 by the
Hittites, when its remains were overrun by the Kassites, who were to
hold the region for some four hundred years. The archives of Mari reveal
another wave of Amorite nomads, plundering and trying whenever possible
to settle down. Their linguistic pattern shows affinities with names and
idioms of Biblical Hebrew, on which ground M. Noth has called them
“Proto-Arameans.” This has lately been challenged. The title “Northwest
Semites” is more pertinent, therefore, although “Amorites” remains as a
conventional name.

*C. The God Amurru*The first Amorites had an eponymous god Martu, who
was soon included into the Sumerian pantheon as son of *Ninḫursanga* and
husband to *Ašratum/Aširtum* (=the Syrian Astarte). Martu is once
identified with the storm-god (H)Adad.

*D. The Amorite Kingdom During the Amarna Age*During the 14th cent
Amurru appears as the name for a Syrian kingdom, whose frontiers reach N
to Arwad, S to Sidon, and E to Damascus. Any ethnic significance of the
name seems here to have been lost and replaced by one merely political.
The kingdom Amurru appears in Hittite and Ugaritic treaties, and through
the latter one can reconstruct a genealogy of eight kings of Amurru (cf.
M. Liverani, *Storia di Ugarit* [1962], ch 2). The name appears also in
Egyptian and Mesopotamian sources, respectively from Seti I and
Tukulti-Ninurta I onward. In the Annals of Sennacherib (cf. ANET, p. 287
b), “kings of Amurru” are those of Phoenicia, Philistia, Ammon, Edom,
and Moab, an evidence for a much broader use of the word.

*E. Physical Characteristics of the Amorites*Because of the complicated
history of the Amorites, great caution is needed when investigating
their ethnic and racial background. The ancient statues of Amorite kings
are often too damaged in relevant features (e.g., the nose) and too
stylized to be of much use (cf. ANEP, nos 429ff), while Mari wall
paintings tend not to classify the people there represented into racial
types known to us. The Egyptian reliefs of Medinet Habu (12th cent cf.
ANEP, nos 7, 9, 346) refer to the inhabitants of the *kingdom* of
Amurru, not to the original Amorites. From the language we can, however,
safely consider the Amorites of Semitic stock, with probably a few
Indo-Aryan elements.

***Bibliography.***—F. Böhl, *Kananäer und Hebräer* (1911); H. Bauer,
*Die Ostkananäer* (1926); E. Dhorme, “Les Amorrhéens,” *Recueil* *E. D.*
(1956), pp. 81ff; M. Noth, ZAW, 58 (1940/41), 182–89; *Der Ursprung des
alten Israel im Lichte neuer Quellen* (1961); *Die Welt des* AT (4th ed
1962); H. B. Huffmon, *Amorite Personal Names in the Mari Texts* (1965);
G. Buccellati, *Amorites of the Ur-III Period* (1966); K. M. Kenyon,
*Amorites and Canaanites* (1966): M. Liverani, *Oriens Antiquus*, 9
(1970), 5–27; C. H. J. de Geus, *Ugarit-Forschungen*, **3 (1971), 41–60;
J. VanSeters, VT, 22 (1972), 64–81.**

A. H. Sayce  
J. A. Soggin

