---
title: Amos
template: lesson.jade
---


<sup>Amos</sup>

Amos
====

A prophet of the 8th cent b.c., and the third book of the Minor
Prophets.

I. The Prophet
--------------

***A. Name***Amos is the prophet whose book stands third among the
“Twelve” in the Hebrew canon. No other person bearing the same name is
mentioned in the OT. There is an Amos mentioned in the genealogical
series Lk. 3:25, but he is otherwise unknown, and although the spelling
is the same as that for Amos in the Greek OT, we do not know how his
name would have been written in Hebrew.

***B. Native Place***Tekoa, the birthplace of Amos, was situated 6 mi
(10 km) S of Bethlehem, from which it is visible, on a hill 2700 ft (820
m) high, overlooking the wilderness of Judah. The name has survived in
contemporary Arabic society (Teqû‘), and the neighborhood is at the
present day the pasture-ground for large flocks of sheep and goats. From
the high ground on which the modern village stands one looks down on the
bare undulating hills of one of the bleakest districts of Palestine,
“the waste howling wilderness,” which must have suggested some of the
startling imagery of the prophet’s addresses. The place may have had—as
is not seldom the case with towns or villages—a reputation for a special
quality of its inhabitants; for it was from Tekoa that Joab fetched the
“wise woman” who by a feigned story effected the reconciliation of David
with his banished son Absalom (2 S. 14). There are traces in the book of
Amos of a shrewdness and mother wit that are not so conspicuous in other
prophetic books.

***C. Personal History***The particulars of a personal kind noted in the
book are few but suggestive. Amos was not a prophet or the son of a
prophet (7:14), i.e., he did not belong to the professional class which
frequented the so- called schools of the prophets. He was “among the
shepherds (*nōq*<sup>*e*</sup>*ḏîm*) of Tekoa” (1:1), the word here used
being found only once again in biblical usage (2 K. 3:4), applied to
Mesha king of Moab. An additional reference in the Ugaritic poem of Baal
and Anath points to a cultic servant whose function included dictation
of poetry in addition to whatever herding may have been required (ANET,
p. 141b, colophon). In 7:14 the word rendered “herdsman” is different
(*bôqēr*) and from its etymology denotes an owner of cattle, though
some, from the LXX rendering, think that the word should be the same as
in 1:1. He was also “a dresser of sycamore trees” (7:14). The word
rendered “dresser” (AV “gatherer”) occurs only here, and from the LXX
(*knízon*) it is conjectured that there is reference to a squeezing or
nipping of the sycamore-fig to make it more palatable or to accelerate
its ripening.

***D. Preparation***Nothing is said as to any special preparation of the
prophet for his work: “The Lord took me from following the flock, and
the Lord said to me, Go, prophesy to my people Israel” (7:15). In these
words he put himself in line with all previous prophets who, in various
modes of expression, claimed a direct revelation from God. There is,
however, significance in the mention of the prophetic call in
association with the statement about his occupation. There was
apparently no period interposed between the one and the other, no
cessation of husbandry to prepare for the work of prophesying. Amos was
already prepared for that task, and when God’s time came he took it up.
Such preparation involved both his relationship with God and his
awareness of the world in which he lived.

*1. Knowledge of God*First of all, he had no doubt **or uncertainty as
to** the character of the God in whose name he was called to speak. The
God of Amos is one whose sway is boundless (9:2ff), whose power is
infinite (8:9f), not only controlling the forces of nature (4; 5:8f) but
guiding the movements and destinies of nations (6:1ff, 14; 9:7ff).
Moreover, He is righteous in all His ways, dealing with nations on moral
principles (1:3ff; 2:1ff), and, though particularly favorable to Israel,
yet making that very choice of them as a people a ground for visiting
them with sterner retribution for their sins (3:2). In common with all
the prophets, Amos gave no explanation of how he came to know God and to
form this conception of His character. It was simply assumed that God is
such a Being; and this knowledge, as it could come only from God, is
regarded as undisputed and undisputable. The call to speak in God’s name
may have come suddenly, but the prophet’s conception of the character of
the God who called him was no new or sudden revelation.

***2. Acquaintance with History and Geography***Amos had a broad
knowledge of the affairs of his own nation and those surrounding Israel.
His opening words (chs 1f) demonstrate an ability to interact with
events outside of the chosen nation, while various references (cf.
below) show how well-informed the prophet was in the past and present of
Israel’s life. Such careful attention to national and international
history has caused speculation to the effect that Amos was not the
rustic he is often depicted to be. Further evidence in that direction
comes from his acute awareness of the geography of his own country.
Whether by personal travel as a wool-merchant or flock-master, or simply
as one whose wanderlust led him to many places, the prophet seems to
have visited various towns (e.g., Samaria, Bethel, Gilgal, Beer-sheba),
particularly those which were religious and market centers.

Basic to all his knowledge is the influence of his own home, the scenery
of the barren hills of the Judean wilderness, and the simple occupations
of his daily life. The landscape surrounding Tekoa was such as to make a
solemn impression on a reflective mind: the wide-spreading desert, the
shimmering waters of the Dead Sea, the high wall of the distant hills of
Moab. And as he tended his flock, or defended them from the ravages of
wild beasts, this sublime setting nourished that exalted view of the
divine Majesty which we find in his book, and furnished the imagery in
which his thoughts are set (1:2; 3:4f; 4:13; 5:8; 9:5f). Rustic he may
be; but his style is one of natural and impassioned eloquence, coming
from a mind which saw God’s working in all nature and His presence in
every phenomenon.

***E. Date***The date of the prophet Amos can be fixed approximately
from the statement in 1:1 that his activity fell “in the days of Uzziah
king of Judah and in the days of Jeroboam the son of Joash king of
Israel, two years before the earthquake.” Both these monarchs had long
reigns, that of Uzziah (Azariah) extending from 767 to 740/39 b.c. and
that of Jeroboam II from 782/1 to 753 b.c. Since Jotham probably acted
as co-regent with Uzziah after 750 b.c., we may safely take the years of
their concurrent reign and put the ministry of Amos between 760 and 750
b.c. The earthquake reference, though long preserved in Israel’s memory
(Zec. 14:5), is of no help to modern chronologists. The period thus
fixed was one of peace and prosperity in both north and south. The
troublesome Syrians had been reduced in 802 b.c. by the destruction of
their capital Damascus at the hand of the Assyrian Adadnirari III, and
for the next fifty years Israel was to grow at their expense. In Assyria
itself a period of weakness followed Adadnirari’s early successes and no
serious threat to Palestine arose until after the accession of
Tiglath-pileser III in 745. During the reign of Jeroboam II the northern
kingdom reached its zenith of wealth and power with the attendant
results of luxury and excess, a situation reflected constantly in the
prophetic visions of Amos. Whether those prophecies were spread over a
long period of time we cannot tell, though there is some indication that
the brief biographical sketch (7:10ff) is set chronologically within a
series of consecutive proclamations.

II. The Book
------------

The arrangement of the book is clear and simple, falling naturally into
three parts, recognizable by certain recurring formulas and general
literary features. The text has been, on the whole, faithfully
preserved, and various attempts to find traces of later editorial hands
rest mainly on grounds of content rather than style.

***A. Divisions***(1) The first section embraces chs 1 and 2. Here,
after the title and designation of the prophet in 1:1, there is a solemn
proclamation of divine authority for the prophet’s words: “The Lord
roars from Zion, and utters his voice from Jerusalem” (v 2). This is
notable in one who throughout the book recognizes God’s power as
worldwide and His operation as extending to all creation; and it should
challenge, on the one hand, the assertion that the temple of Jerusalem
was not more sacred than any of the numerous “high places” throughout
the land, and, on the other hand, the superficial manner in which some
writers speak of the Hebrew notion of a deity whose dwelling-place was
restricted to one locality beyond which His influence was not felt. For
this God, who has His dwelling-place in Zion, now through the mouth of
the prophet denounces in succession the surrounding nations for breaches
of a universal law binding on all humanity. It will be observed that the
nations denounced are not named in geographical order, and the prophet
exhibits remarkable rhetorical skill in the order of selection. The
interest and sympathy of the hearers is secured by fixing the attention
on the enormities of guilt in their neighbors, and curiosity is kept
awake by the uncertainty as to where the next stroke of the prophetic
whip will fall. Beginning with the more distant and alien peoples of
Damascus, Gaza, and Tyre, he wheels round to the nearer and kindred
peoples of Edom, Ammon, and Moab, till he rests for a moment on the
brother tribe of Judah, and thus, having relentlessly drawn the net
around Israel by the enumeration of seven peoples, he swoops down upon
the northern kingdom to which his message is particularly addressed.

(2) The second section embraces chs 3–6 and consists apparently of a
series of discourses, three of which are introduced by the formula:
“Hear this word” (3:1; 4:1; 5:1), and two others introduced by a
comprehensive: “Woe to them …” (5:18; 6:1). Some would divide this
section into a larger number of subsections (e.g., separating 4:1–3 from
4:4ff); some, indeed, have described the whole book as a collection of
ill-arranged fragments. Such views, however, popular with an earlier
generation, are now treated with considerable reserve.

(3) The third section has some well-marked characteristics, although it
is even less uniform than the preceding. The outstanding feature is the
phrase, “Thus the Lord God showed me” (7:1, 4, 7; 8:1), varied at 9:1 by
the words, “I saw the Lord standing beside the altar.” We have thus a
series of “visions” bearing upon, and interpreted as applying to, the
condition of Israel. It is in the course of one of these, when the
prophet comes to the words, “I will rise against the house of Jeroboam
with the sword” (7:9), that the interposition of Amaziah the priest of
Bethel is recorded, with the prophet’s noble reply as to his divine
call, and his rebuke and denunciation of the priest, ending with a
prophetic announcement of the downfall and captivity of Israel
(7:14–17).

***B. Theology***Amos is sometimes considered to be the prophet of wrath
in contrast to his contemporary Hosea, the prophet of God’s love. Such a
contrast is inconsistent with a balanced picture of both prophets as men
whose theology was grounded in the covenant of love between God and
Israel. Even if, as some critics (e.g., Eissfeldt) maintain, the closing
passage of Amos (9:11–15) is a secondary addition, there is still no
reason to believe that Amos—harsh though his words were—believed that
the God of Israel would make a full end of His people in captivity.
Judgment is pronounced on the false religion that claimed national
security in the Lord but could ignore the ethical demands of the
covenant. Woes are called down upon those who looked for the Day of the
Lord as a day when Israel would triumph over all enemies. Such a Day,
for disobedient Israel, was to be a day of darkness and not light
(5:18), a day of national destruction rather than imperial expansion.
Although Amos seems to have had no hope for the nation as a whole, he
did enunciate the doctrine of the remnant (9:8), begun earlier under
Elijah and developed fully by Isaiah. In view of these commitments to
the mainstream of prophetic theological thought, it would seem strange
if, as some scholars still maintain, Amos 5:21–23 were a rejection of
cultic religion completely. One feels, rather, that Amos’ God had
rejected both cult and nation in their corrupt form, but any restoration
of an Israelite remnant would certainly have included a reformed and
revived ritual system.

***C. Historical and Critical Value***The book of Amos is particularly
valuable as a contemporaneous document from a period of great
significance in the history of Israel. It not only gives graphic
sketches and illuminating hints of the life and religious condition of
the people, but furnishes a trustworthy standard for estimating the
value of some other books whose dates are not so precisely determined, a
definite starting-point for tracing the course of Israel’s history.

***1. As a Reflection of Social Conditions***The book is valuable as
embodying a contemporary picture of society and the condition of
religion. From the abuses which the prophet denounces and the lifelike
sketches he draws of the scenes amid which he moved, taken along with
what we know otherwise of the historical movements of the period, we are
able to form a fairly adequate estimate of the condition of the age and
the country. During the reign of Jeroboam II the kingdom of Israel rose
to a degree of extent and influence unparalleled since the days of
Solomon (2 K. 14:25), and we are not astonished to read in Amos the
haughty words he puts into the mouth of the people of his time, who
speak of Israel as the “first of the nations” (6:1). But success in war,
if it encouraged this boastful spirit, brought also inevitable evils in
its train. Victory meant plunder, an extension of territory and increase
of wealth for the warrior-landowner class. The peasant, however,
required to take up arms without promise of great spoil, was often taken
away from the labors of the field, which at best were for a time
neglected, and in the worst event were wasted and rendered unproductive.
The wealth secured by men of strong hand led to the increase of luxury
in its possessors, and became actually the means of still further adding
to the burdens of the poor, who were dependent on the rich for the means
of earning their livelihood and for basic justice in society. The
opening denunciation of Israel for oppression of the poor (2:6f) is
reechoed and amplified in the succeeding chapters (3:9f; 4:1; 5:11f;
8:4–6). The luxury of the rich, who fattened on the misfortune of their
poorer brethren, is castigated in biting irony in such passages as
6:3–6. Specially noticeable in this connection is the contemptuous
reference to the luxurious women, the “cows of Bashan” (4:1), whose
extravagances are maintained by the oppression of the poor. The
situation, in short, was one that has found striking parallels in modern
despotic countries in the East, where the people are divided into two
classes, the powerful rich and the poor oppressed, men who have no
helper, dependent on the rich and influential and tending to greater
poverty under greedy patrons.

***2. As a Reflection of Popular Theology***In a northern version of
what was later denounced by Isaiah and Jeremiah, the people prided
themselves on what they regarded as the worship of the national God,
thinking that so long as they honored Him with costly offerings and a
gorgeous ritual, they were pleasing Him and secure in His protection.
Though lacking the strong prop of a Davidic monarchy and Jerusalem
temple, crowds of worshipers resorted to Bethel, Dan, Gilgal, and even
Beer-sheba with all the accompaniments of ceremony and ritual which the
newly found wealth put in their power. The people seem to have settled
down to a complacent optimism, nourished no doubt by a national
prosperity; and though there had not been wanting reminders of the
sovereignty of a righteous God, in convulsions of nature—drought,
famine, pestilence, and earthquake (4:6–11)—these had been of no avail
in awakening the sleeping conscience. They put the evil day far from
them (6:3), for the Lord was their national God and “the Day of the
Lord,” the good time coming (5:18), when God would come to their help,
was more in their minds than the imperative duty of returning to Him
(4:6, 8, etc.).

***3. As Witness to Israel’s Sacred History***A past generation of
scholars argued that the great historical sources of the Pentateuch
which they designated J and E were composed at or shortly before the
time of Amos and Hosea. References to events portrayed therein, as
reflected in Amos, provided a reliable historical peg for affirming that
the accounts in J and E were circulating by the 8th century. It was
argued by not a few that the J and E documents were original
compositions, bearing little resemblance to whatever history Israel may
actually have experienced, and providing no faithful picture of what had
really transpired. Contemporary scholarship offers no such facile
solutions, and most would agree that the traditions contained in the
Pentateuch, if not the actual writings themselves, were very old at the
time Amos and his contemporaries appeared. It is not surprising, then,
that within the compass of even a small book we should find references
to outstanding events and stages of the past history presented as
matters known to all his hearers. Such incidental notices as a reference
to the house of Isaac (7:16), another to the house of Jacob (3:13), and
another to the enmity between Jacob and Esau (1:11), certainly imply a
familiarity with a connected patriarchal history such as found in
Genesis. Again, references to the overthrow of Sodom and Gomorrah
(4:11), to the “whole family” whom the Lord “brought up out of the land
of Egypt” (3:1), to the divine leading of the people “forty years in the
wilderness” (2:10), are not odds and ends of popular story but links in
a chain of national history.

***4. As a Reflection of Legal Development in Israel***The silence of
Amos concerning the duties and perquisites of legitimate priests and
Levites and the priority of the Jerusalem temple have led many to the
conclusion that the prophet was unfamiliar with distinctly Levitical
legislation. Adherents of the old JEDP documentary hypothesis have
generally held that this material came either from D, written for
Josiah’s reformation in 622/621 b.c., or from P, a composition of the
priests in the postexilic theocracy.

At the outset we must bear in mind the condition of the people whom Amos
addressed, and the purpose and aim of his mission to the northern
kingdom. As we are told in Kings (1 K. 12:25ff), Jeroboam I deliberately
sought to make a breach between the worship of Jerusalem and that of his
own kingdom, while persuading his people that the worship of the Lord
was being maintained. The schism occurred some 170 years before the time
of Amos, and it is improbable that the worship and ritual of the
northern kingdom tended in that interval to greater purity or greater
conformity to what had been the authoritative practice of the undivided
kingdom at the temple of Jerusalem. When, therefore, Amos, in face of
the corrupt worship combined with elaborate ritual that prevailed around
him, declared that God hated and despised their feasts and took no
delight in their solemn assemblies (5:21), we are not justified in
pressing his words into a sweeping condemnation of all ritual. On the
contrary, when in the very same connection (5:22) he specified burnt
offerings and meal offerings and peace offerings, and, in another
passage (4:4, 5), daily sacrifices and tithes, sacrifices of
thanksgiving, and free-will offerings, it is natural to infer that by
these terms, which are familiar in the Pentateuch, he is referring to
those statutory observances which were part of the national worship of
united Israel, but had been overlaid with corruption and become
destitute of spiritual value as practiced in the northern kingdom.
Having condemned in such scornful and sweeping terms the worship that he
saw going on around him, what was Amos to gain by entering into minute
ritual prescriptions or defining the precise duties of priests and
Levites? Having condemned the pilgrimages to the shrines of Bethel,
Gilgal, Beer-sheba and Dan, what was he to gain by substituting for such
meaningless activity an equally insincere attendance at a central
sanctuary? Amos’ problem was not one of form but one of content. No
attempt is made even to reckon with questions of Jerusalem v Bethel,
Levite v non-Levitical priest, because none of this could have been
meaningful until the prior question of the heart and its attitude was
settled. Thus the argument from silence cannot serve as proof of a late
date for D or P material, inasmuch as the question simply was not one on
which we might expect Amos to comment.

If we sense an ambiguity in Amos’ handling of ritual law, there is no
such response when we consider his ethical sources. His appeals are in
striking agreement with the specifically ethical demands of the law
books, and in phraseology they resemble them so much as to warrant the
conclusion that the requirements of the law on these subjects were known
and acknowledged. Thus his denunciations of those who oppress the poor
(2:7; 4:1; 8:4) are quite in the spirit and style of Ex. 22:21f; 23:9.
His references to the perversion of justice and taking bribes (2:6; 5:7,
10ff; 6:12) are rhetorical enforcements of the prohibitions of the law
in Ex. 23:6–8. When he reproves those that “lay themselves down beside
every altar upon garments taken in pledge” (2:8) we hear an echo of the
command: “If ever you take your neighbor’s garment in pledge, you shall
restore it to him before the sun goes down” (Ex. 22:26); and when he
denounces those who make “the ephah small and the shekel great, and deal
deceitfully with false balances” (8:5) his words are in close agreement
with the law, “You shall do no wrong in judgment, in measures of length
or weight or quantity. You shall have just balances, just weights, a
just ephah, and a just hin” (Lev. 19:35f).

In addition to an affirmation of those ethical parts of the law which
lie at the foundation of all prophecy, Amos is remarkable in that his
phraseology often agrees with Deuteronomy, the most ethical book of the
Pentateuch. He does not, indeed, like his contemporary Hosea, dwell on
the *love* of God as Deuteronomy does, but, in sterner mold, citing
almost the very words of Deuteronomy, emphasizes the keeping of God’s
commandments, and denounces those who despise the law (cf. 2:4 with Dt.
17:19). Among verbal coincidences have been noticed the combinations
“oppress” and “crush” (4:1; Dt. 28:33), “blasting” (RSV “blight”) and
“mildew” (4:9; Dt. 28:22), “gall” and “wormwood” (6:12; Dt. 29:18). In
view of this it seems that the silence of Amos with reference to the
centralization of worship, on which Deuteronomy is so explicit, is not
to be seen as conclusive in judging the critical question of D.

III. Amos and the Prophetic Office
----------------------------------

With the possible exception of Joel, Amos is the earliest prophet whose
oracles have been collected in written form. This fact, and the apparent
dissociation from normative prophecy (7:14), has led some scholars to
see in Amos a sharp break with earlier professional prophets and the
institution of a new movement. However, Am. 7:14 is still the subject of
lively academic discussion, with some translating the pertinent phrase
“I was no prophet,” indicating only a lack of early association with the
office, while others opt for “I *am* no prophet,” and argue about Amos’
relationship with the guild prophets (some of whom may indeed have been
ecstatics) and the normative tradition represented by Samuel and Elijah.

What is certainly clear, whatever the meaning of Am. 7:14, is that
prophecy was no new thing in eighth-century Israel, and that Amos
identified squarely with what he considered a known and accepted office
within the nation. He begins by stating boldly, “Surely the Lord God
does nothing without revealing his secret to his servants the prophets”
(3:7). We need not search further for a definition of the prophet as
understood by him and other OT writers: the prophet is one to whom God
reveals His will, and who comes forward to declare that will and purpose
to man. A great deal has been made of the words of Amaziah the priest of
Bethel (7:12), as if they proved that the prophet in those times was
regarded as a wandering rhetorician, earning his bread by reciting his
speeches; and we must indeed admit that there were prophets whose
motives and methodology were less than God-directed (Mic. 3:5, 11).
Nevertheless, there were evidently true prophets, well known in the
history of Israel, to whose tradition Amos appealed and with whose
ministry he identified (2:11; 3:7f). They were called by God to their
office, and, far from echoing merely patriotic and nationalistic
sentiments of the people, they were unpopular preachers of judgment
whose message had, from the first, evoked a negative response (2:12).

Amos also gives a valid picture of prophetic religion. His God is a God
of the universe, controlling the forces of nature (4:6ff; 5:8f), ruling
the destinies of nations (6:2, 14; 9:2–6), searching the thoughts of the
heart (4:13), inflexible in righteousness and dealing with nations and
men on the basis of equal justice (1 and 2; 9:7), but most severe to the
people who have received the highest privileges (3:2). This is the God
whose laws Israel has broken (2:4; 3:10) and for whose just judgment she
is warned to prepare (4:12). There is no rejection of cult except
insofar as it has conflicted with God’s true law. There is no exaltation
of ethics apart from the ethic of Deuteronomy and the rest of the
Pentateuch. There is no false assurance of God’s choice of Israel apart
from a reiteration of the covenant responsibilities inherent in that
choice. In short, prophetic religion is the religion of normative
spokesmen for God from Moses onward.

J. Robertson  
C. Armerding

**.from International Standard Bible Encyclopedia**

