---
title: "Antinomianism"
pdf: "antinomianism.pdf"
description: "Antinomianism is the view that Christians are exempt from the demands of the moral law by reason of their reliance upon divine grace alone for salvation."
tableOfContents: false
template: topic.jade
---

*from International Standard Bible Encyclopedia*

Antinomianism is the view that Christians are exempt from the demands of
the moral law by reason of their reliance upon divine grace alone for
salvation.

Although the word is not found in Scripture, it is evident that Paul was
libelously accused by his detractors of holding such a false doctrine.
In Rom. 3:8 he denied heatedly the accusation that he had called right
conduct irrelevant to Christian experience, and again made this
repudiation in Rom. 6:1f, 15f.

The gospel brings freedom *from* sin but not freedom *to* sin. It is
true that in the new dispensation of Christ the believer is no longer
under obligation to the Mosaic law, in the sense that he is emancipated
from its frustrating impositions upon an incapable human will. His
obedience is not rendered directly to the commandment, but represents
his response to the person of Christ. But this reorientation does not
supply him with a license to transgress with impunity.

“The freedom from the moral law which the believer enjoys,” writes
Robert Haldane, “is a freedom from an obligation to fulfil it in his own
person for his justification—a freedom from its condemnation on account
of imperfection of obedience. But this is quite consistent with the
eternal obligation of the moral law as a rule of life to the Christian”
(*Epistle to the Romans* [repr 1966], p. 259).

The Epistle of James provides a further NT corrective to any such
misconception of the Christian faith. James would appear to have been
confronting a popular abuse, perhaps current in gentile Christian
circles (as Sieffert conjectures), which laid such exaggerated emphasis
upon faith in the scheme of salvation that a certain indifference to
morality was inadvertently encouraged. James’s stress on “the perfect
law of liberty” (1:25) and “the royal law” of love (2:8), combined with
his recognition that works must necessarily evidence the reality of
faith, completes Paul’s protest against the unwarranted preference of
any antinomian charge against Christianity. Positive warnings about the
insidious nature of the heresy are found in 2 Cor. 6:14–18; 12:21; Eph.
5:9; 2 Pet. 2:18f; and 1 Jn. 3:7f.

The reference in 1 John reminds us that some of the Gnostic sects of the
1st and 2nd cents were antinomian in their teaching. The Nicolaitans,
mentioned in Rev. 2:6, 14f as well as in the writings of the early
fathers, advocated a return to sub-Christian morality. The Ophites
inverted the accepted standards of moral judgment, and the Cainites
exalted Cain and others who withstood the God of the OT. In the
Valentinians we meet “the most frank and definite statement of
antinomianism in its widest and most immoral form” (J. M. Sterrett, ERE,
I, 582). The licentious practices of these Gnostics (standing in such
marked contrast with the severe asceticism of other schools within the
movement) arose from an unscriptural dualism that erroneously divorced
matter from spirit. Since matter was thought to be irredeemably corrupt,
the bodily passions could be indulged without inhibition, and in fact
should be, so that the soul might shine in brighter splendor by
comparison. The maxim of Gnostic antinomianism was: “Give to the flesh
the things of the flesh and to the spirit the things of the spirit.” The
Circumcellions of the 4th cent laid themselves open to the charge of
antinomianism, and one of Augustine’s treatises was entitled *Against
the Enemies of the Law and Prophets*.

The actual term “antinomian” was first employed, so far as is known, by
Martin Luther in his controversy with Johannes Agricola. The latter
denied that the preaching of law should precede or accompany the
preaching of the gospel in order to arouse a sense of sin. “The
decalogue,” he declared, “belongs to the courthouse, not the pulpit.”
His slogan was “To the gallows with Moses.” In the later Majoristic
dispute even more extreme forms of antinomianism were defended by
Andreas Poach and Anton Otto on the ground that the Christian is “above
all obedience” (see R. Seeberg, *History of Doctrines* [Engtr 1952], II,
251,365f).

Luther opposed his former pupil Agricola in six disputations against the
antinomians. The reformer maintained that, although the new obedience of
the believer no longer requires the coercive stimulus of the Mosaic
code, the law nevertheless serves as a mirror, a guide, and a restraint.
A specific proscription of antinomianism was written into the Formula of
Concord, where it was firmly asserted that the liberty of Christians
with respect to the demands of the law must not be misconstrued in the
sense “that it were optional with them to do or omit them or that they
might or could act contrary to the Law of God and nonetheless could
retain faith and God’s favor and grace” (Art. IV). Bente shrewdly
assessed the situation when he asserted that the intrusion of
antinomianism was “a veiled effort to open once more the doors of the
Lutheran Church to the Roman work-righteousness which Luther had
expelled” (F. Bente, *Concordia Triglotta*, Historical Introductions, p.
161).

Antinomian echoes may be heard in succeeding centuries among the
Anabaptists in Germany and Holland, the Illuminati in Spain, and the
Camisards in France. During the Evangelical Awakening in Britain, John
Wesley had occasion to warn his followers against “the bane of true
religion” (*Letters*, ed Telford, VII, 169) and John Fletcher issued his
celebrated *Checks to Antinomianism*. While some of the conclusions
drawn, e.g., by R. A. Knox in his study of Enthusiasm, are to be
resisted, the caveat of Wesley ought to be observed: “I have found that
even the precious doctrine of salvation by faith has need to be guarded
with the utmost care, or those who hear it will slight both inward and
outward holiness” (*Letters*, V, 83).

A. S. Wood

