---
title: "The Apostolic Church"
indexTitle: "Apostolic Church, The"
pdf: "apostolicchurch.pdf"
description: "The beginnings of the Church in the times of the Apostles."
tableofcontents: true
template: topic.jade
---

from *The Life and Epistles of St. Paul*  
by W. J. Conybeare and J. S. Howson

##### First Aspect of the Church

Supposing him to be thus employed, we will describe in a few words the
first beginnings of the Apostolic Church, and the appearance presented
by it to that Judaism in the midst of which it rose, and follow its
short history to the point where the “young man, whose name was Saul”
reappears at Jerusalem, in connection with his friends of the Cilician
synagogue, “disputing with Stephen.”

Before our Savior ascended into heaven, He said to His disciples, “Ye
shall be witnesses unto me both in Jerusalem, and in all Judea, and in
Samaria, and unto the uttermost parts of the earth.” (Acts 1:8) And when
Matthias had been chosen, and the promised blessing had been received on
the day of Pentecost, this order was strictly followed. First the Gospel
was proclaimed in the City of Jerusalem, and the numbers of those who
believed gradually rose from 120 to 5000. (Acts 1:15; 2:41; 4:4) Until
the disciples were scattered (Acts 8:1), “upon the persecution that
arose about Stephen,” (Acts 9:19) Jerusalem was the scene of all that
took place in the Church of Christ. We read as yet of no communications
of the truth to the Gentiles, nor to the Samaritans, no hint even of any
Apostolic preaching in the country parts of Judea.

It providentially happened, indeed, that the first outburst of the new
doctrine, with all its miraculous evidence, was witnessed by “Jews and
proselytes” from all parts of the world (Acts 2:9-11).

They had come up to the festival of Pentecost from the banks of the
Tigris and Euphrates, of the Nile and the Tiber, from the provinces of
Asia Minor, from the desert of Arabia, and from the islands of the Greek
Sea; and when they returned to their homes, they carried with them news
which prepared the way for the glad tidings about to issue from Mount
Zion to “the uttermost parts of the earth.” But as yet the Gospel
lingered on the Holy Hill. The first acts of the Apostles were “prayer
and supplication” in the “upper room;” breaking of bread from house to
house;” miracles in the Temple; gatherings of the people in Solomon’s
cloister; and the bearing of testimony in the council chamber of the
Sanhedrin.

One of the chief characteristics of the apostolic church was the
bountiful charity of its members one towards another. Many of the Jews
of Palestine, and therefore many of the earliest Christian converts,
were extremely poor. The odium incurred by adopting the new doctrine
might undermine the livelihood of some who depended on their trade for
support, and this would make almsgiving necessary. But the Jews of
Palestine were relatively poor compared with those of the dispersion. We
see this exemplified on later occasions in the contributions which St.
Paul more than once anxiously promoted.[^1] And in the very first days
of the Church, we find its wealthier members placing their entire
possessions at the disposal of the Apostles. Not that there was any
abolition of the rights of property, as the words of St. Peter to
Ananias very well show (Acts 5:4). But those who were rich gave up what
God had given them in the spirit of generous self-sacrifice, and
according to the true principles of Christian communism, which regards
property as entrusted to the possessor, not for himself, but for the
good of the whole community, to be distributed according to such methods
as his charitable feeling and conscientious judgment may approve.

The Apostolic Church was, in this respect, in a healthier condition that
the Church of modern days. But even then we find ungenerous and
suspicious sentiments growing up in the midst of the general
benevolence. That old jealousy between the Aramaic and Hellenistic Jews
reappeared. Their party feeling was excited by some real or apparent
unfairness in the distribution of the fund set apart for the poor. “A
murmuring of the Grecians against the Hebrews” (Acts 6:1), or of the
Hebrews against the Grecians, had been a common occurrence for at least
two centuries; and, notwithstanding the power of the Divine Spirit, none
will wonder that it broke out again even among those who had become
obedient to the doctrine of Christ.

That the widows’ fund might be carefully distributed, seven almoners, or
deacons[^2], were appointed, of whom the most eminent was St. Stephen,
described as a man “full of faith, and of the Holy Spirit,” and as one
who, “full of faith and power did great wonders and miracles among the
people.” It will be observed that these seven men have Greek names, and
that one was a proselyte from the Greco-Syrian city of Antioch. It was
natural, from the peculiar character of the quarrel, that Hellenistic
Jews should have been appointed to this office. And this circumstance
must be looked on as divinely arranged. For the introduction of that
party which was most free from local and national prejudices into the
very ministry of the Church must have had an important influence in
preparing the way for the admission of the Gentiles.

Looking back from our point of view upon the community at Jerusalem, we
see in it the beginning of that great society, the Church, which has
continued to our own time, distinct both from Jews and heathens, and
which will continue until it absorbs both Jews and heathens. But to the
contemporary Jews themselves it wore a very different appearance. From
the Hebrew point of view the disciples of Christ would be regarded as a
Jewish sect or synagogue. The synagogues, as we have seen, were very
numerous at Jerusalem. There were already the Cilician Synagogue, the
Alexandrian Synagogue, the Synagogue of the Libertines, and to these was
now added the Nazarene Synagogue, or the Synagogue of the Galileans.

Not that any separate building was erected for the devotions of the
Christians, for they met from house to house for prayer and the breaking
of bread. But they were by no means separated from the nation:[^3] they
attended the festivals; they worshipped in the Temple. They were a new
and singular party in the nation, holding peculiar opinions and
interpreting the Scriptures in a peculiar way. This is the aspect under
which the Church would first present itself to the Jews, and among
others to Saul himself. Many different opinions were expressed in the
synagogues concerning the nature and office of the Messiah. These
Galileans would be distinguished as holding the strange opinion that the
true Messiah was that notorious “malefactor” who had been crucified at
the last Passover. All parties in the nation united to oppose, and if
possible to crush, the monstrous heresy.

The first attempts to put down the new faith came from the Sadducees.
The high priest and his immediate adherents (Acts 4:1; 5:17) belonged to
this party. They hated the doctrine of the resurrection; and the
resurrection of Jesus Christ was the cornerstone of all St. Peter’s
teaching. He and the other Apostles were brought before the Sanhedrin,
who in the first instance were content to enjoin silence on them. The
order was disobeyed and they were summoned again. The consequences might
have been fatal but that the jealousy between the Sadducees and the
Pharisees was overruled, and the instrumentality of one man’s wisdom was
used by Almighty God for the protection of His servants. Gamaliel, the
eminent Pharisee, argued that if this cause were not of God, it would
come to nothing, like the work of other imposters; but if it were of
God, they could not safely resist what mush certainly prevail; and the
apostles of Jesus Christ were scourged and allowed to “depart from the
presence of the council, rejoicing that they were counted worthy to
suffer shame for His name.” (Acts 5:41)

But it was impossible that those Pharisees, whom Christ had always
rebuked, should long continue to be protectors of the Christians. On
this occasion we find the teacher, Gamaliel, taking St. Peter’s part; at
the next persecution, Saul, the pupil, is actively concerned in the
murder of St. Stephen. It was the same alternation of the two prevailing
parties, first opposing each other, and then uniting to oppose the
Gospel, of which Saul himself had such intimate experience when he
became St. Paul.

In many particulars St. Stephen was the forerunner of St. Paul. Up to
this time the conflict had been chiefly maintained with the Aramaic
Jews; but Stephen carried the war of the Gospel into the territory of
the Hellenists. The learned members of the foreign synagogues endeavored
to refute him by argument or by clamor. The Cilician Synagogue is
particularly mentioned (Acts 6:9,10) as having furnished some
conspicuous opponents to Stephen, who “were not able to resist the
wisdom and the spirit with which he spoke.” We cannot doubt from what
follows that Saul of Tarsus, already distinguished by his zeal and
talents among the younger champions of Pharisaism, bore a leading part
in the discussions which here took place. He was now, though still a
young man (Acts 7:58) yet no longer in the first opening of youth. This
is evident from the fact that he was appointed to an important
ecclesiastical and political office immediately afterwards. Such an
appointment he could hardly have received from the Sanhedrin before the
age of thirty, and probably not as early; for we must remember that a
peculiar respect for seniority distinguished the Rabbinical authorities.

We can imagine Saul, then, the foremost in the Cilician Synagogue,
disputing against the new doctrines of the Hellenistic Deacon, in all
the energy of vigorous manhood, and with all the vehement logic of the
Rabbis. How often must these scenes have been recalled to his mind when
he himself took the place of Stephen in many a synagogue, and bore the
brunt of the like furious assault, surrounded by “Jews filled with envy,
who spoke against those things which were spoken by Paul, contradicting
and blaspheming.” (Acts 13:45)

But this clamor and these arguments were not sufficient to convince or
intimidate St. Stephen. False witnesses were then suborned to accuse him
of blasphemy against Moses and against God, who asserted, when he was
dragged before the Sanhedrin, that they had heard him say that Jesus of
Nazareth should destroy the Temple and change the Mosaic customs. It is
evident from the nature of this accusation how remarkably his doctrine
was an anticipation of St. Paul’s. As a Hellenistic Jew, he was less
entangled in the prejudices of Hebrew nationality than his Aramaic
brethren, and he seems to have had a fuller understanding of the final
intention of the gospel than St. Peters and the apostles had yet
attained to. Not doubting the divinity of the Mosaic economy, and not
faithless to the god of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, he yet saw that the
time was coming when the “true worshippers” should worship Him, not in
the Temple only or in any one sacred spot, but everywhere throughout the
earth, “in spirit and in truth,” and for this doctrine he was doomed to
die.

##### Wider Diffusion of Christianity

Hitherto the history of the Christian church has been confined within
Jewish families. We have followed its progress beyond the wall of
Jerusalem, but hardly yet beyond the boundaries of Palestine. If any
traveler from a distant country has been admitted into the community of
believers, the place of his baptism has not been more remote that the
desert of Gaza. If any “aliens from the commonwealth of Israel” have
been admitted to the citizenship of the spiritual Israelites, they have
been “strangers” who dwell among the hills of Samaria. But the time is
rapidly approaching when the knowledge of Christ must spread more
rapidly, when those who possess not that Book, which caused perplexity
on the road to Ethiopia, will hear and adore His name, and greater
strangers than those who drew water from the well of Sychar will come
nigh to the Fountain of Life. The same dispersion which gathered in the
Samaritans will gather in the Gentiles also. The “middle wall of
partition” being utterly broken down, all will be called by the new and
glorious name of Christian.

And as we follow the progress of events and find that all movements in
the Church begin to have more and more reference to the heathen, we
observe that these movements begin to circulate more and more round a
new center of activity. Not Jerusalem, but Antioch, not the Holy City of
God’s ancient people, but the profane city of the Greeks and Romans, is
the place to which the student of sacred history is now directed. During
the remainder of the Acts of the Apostles our attention is at least
divided between Jerusalem and Antioch, until at last, after following
St. Paul’s many journeys, we come with him to Rome. For some time
Constantinople must remain a city of the future, but we are more than
once reminded of the greatness of Alexandria[^4]: and thus even in the
life of the Apostle we find prophetic intimations of four of the five
great centers of the early Catholic Church.

At present we are occupied with Antioch, and the point before us is that
particular moment in the church’s history when it was first called
Christian. Both the place and the event are remarkable, and the time, if
we are able to determine it, is worthy of our attention. Though we are
following the course of an individual biography, it is necessary to
pause, on critical occasions, to look around on what is passing in the
Empire at large. And, happily, we are now arrived at a point where we
are able distinctly to see the path of the Apostle’s life intersecting
the general history of the period. A few such remarks, made once for
all, may justify what has gone before, and prepare the way for
subsequent chapters.

[^1]: Acts 19:29,30; Rom. 15:25,26, cf. Acts 24:17; 1 Cor. 16:1-4; 2
Cor. 8:1-4. 

[^2]: The general question of the Diaconate in the primitive Church is
considered in chapter 13.

[^3]: “The worship of the Temple and the synagogue still went side by
side with the prayers and the breaking of bread from house to house …
The Jewish family life was the highest expression of Christian unity …
The fulfillment of the ancient law was the aspect of Christianity to
which the attention of the Church was most directed.” Prof. Stanley’s
Sermon on St. Peter, p. 92; see James 2:2, where the word “synagogue” is
applied to Christian assemblies. 

[^^4]: See Acts 6:9 (with 2:10), 27:6; 28:11; and compare Acts 18:24;
19:1, with 1 Cor. 1:12; 3:4-6; Tit. 3:13. 
