---
title: "Areopagus"
pdf: "areopagus.pdf"
description: "The Areopagus is a hill northwest of the Acropolis in Athens, Greece, where the apostle Paul preached to the intellectuals."
tableofcontents: true
template: topic.jade
---

The **Areopagus** is a hill northwest of the Acropolis in Athens,
Greece.

There are two traditions as to how the hill got its name. According to
one, it was named for Ares the god of War, who was put on trial there
for the slaying of Halirrhotios the son of Poseidon; hence the AV
designation in Acts 17:22 (Ares has been identified with the Roman god
Mars). The other tradition understands the name Areopagus to mean the
“hill of the Arai.” The Arai (“curses”), more popularly known as the
Furies, were goddesses whose task was avenging murder. If this tradition
is true the name was very fitting, for the Areopagus was the place where
cases of homicide were tried. Moreover, at the foot of this hill there
is a cave wherein the shrine of these goddesses was located. The
goddesses are also known by the names Semnai and Erinyes. Pausanias of
Sparta tells of a tradition that the first trial on the Areopagus was
that of Orestes, whom the goddesses cursed and pursued relentlessly for
the murder of his own mother, Clytemnestra.

![The Areopagus, meeting place of the council before whom Paul preached at
Athens.](img/areopagus.jpg)

A staircase hewn out of the rock leads to the summit of this hill (which
is about 370 ft [113 m] high), where traces of benches are visible
forming three sides of a square, also cut out of the stone. At one time,
two white stones were also there, upon which the defendant and his
accuser stood. They were named “The Stone of Shamelessness” and “The
Stone of Pride,” respectively.

The name of the hill was given later to the council whose meetings were
held upon it. The council of the Areopagus retained this name even when
its meetings were transferred from the hill to the Royal Stoa, which
should, perhaps, be identified with the stoa of Zeus Eleutheros in the
agora. It is suggested that the council met at times on the Acropolis as
well. The council of the Areopagus was similar to a council of elders,
and was subject to the king of Athens. It was very influential in the
formation of the aristocracy. Aristotle (*Pol*. viii.2) describes the
scope of its power as including the appointment to all offices, the work
of administration, and the right to punish all cases. Through the
reforms of Solon (594 b.c.) the authority of the Areopagus was greatly
limited, though the council did maintain jurisdiction in cases of
conspiracy against the state. During the time of Pericles its functions
were mainly those of a criminal court. Further transfers of its
functions to the Boule, the Ecclesia, and the Popular Court of Law
detracted from the prestige of the court, though it retained
jurisdiction in cases of homicide. Under Demosthenes it recaptured some
of its power and was able to annul the election of certain officers. In
times of Roman domination the council of the Areopagus concerned itself
with cases of forgery, maintaining correct standards of measure,
supervision of buildings, and matters of religion and education. The
Areopagus was the court where Socrates met his accusers.

The apostle Paul was brought to the Areopagus by certain Epicureans and
Stoics who wished to hear more of his teaching about Jesus and the
Resurrection. Since the name Areopagus may be applied to the hill or to
the council, there is an ambiguity which has given rise to debate as to
whether Paul spoke publicly on the hill or was examined for his
religious teaching before the council. Ramsay (SPT) rejected the view
that they took Paul to the summit of the Areopagus in an effort to find
a more suitable place for him to address the crowd. He considers that
pride would have prevented the Athenians from asking Paul, a despised
person, to address them in such an honored locality. Furthermore, he
asserts that the language of the text will not allow it, for one cannot
stand “in the midst of the hill.” It is likely that Paul was examined by
the council on account of the religious tenets he was proclaiming. The
control the council exercised over public instruction is illustrated by
Plutarch’s statement with respect to Cratippus the peripatetic, that
Cicero “got the court of Areopagus, by public decree, to request his
stay at Athens, for the instruction of their youth, and the honor of
their city” (Plutarch *Cicero* 24.5). Although it is recognized that the
council met in various places, its common practice to convene on the
hill from which it took its name makes plausible the position of Wright
and certain others who consider that Paul stood before the council on
the hill of the Areopagus.

***Bibliography.***—SPT; WBA; F. F. Bruce, *Book of the Acts* (NIC,
1954); W. A. McDonald, BA, 4 (1941), 1–10; O. Broneer, BA, 21 (1958),
2–28.

D. H. Madvig

**From International Standard Bible Encyclopedia**

