---
title: "Ark of the Covenant"
pdf: "arkofthecovenant.pdf"
description: "The Ark of the Tabernacle, its history and typology."
template: lesson.jade
---


**Ark of the Covenant 7**

**The Ark of the Covenant**

*From the teaching of R. B. Thieme, Jr., Pastor, Berachah Church,
Houston, Texas*

The Ark of the Covenant is described in Exo. 25:10-22, 37:1-9.

The Ark of the Covenant is so called because the ten commandments, or
the Mosaic Covenant, were deposited in it.

Num. 10:33; Deut. 31:26; Heb.9:4.

It contained three items:

-   the tablets of the Law,

-   Aaron’s rod that budded,

-   and the pots of manna.

It is also called the Ark of the testimony, because it witnessed God’s
holiness and the people of Israel’s sinfulness, Exo. 25:16, 22

It is called the Ark of God to indicate God’s presence with Israel, 1
Sam. 3:3; 4:11.

As a symbol of divine presence, the Ark was carried at the head of the
column of the army as the point, thus indicating divine protection of
the Jews while in transit, Num. 10:33; Deut. 1:33; Psalm 132:8.

The Ark of the Covenant was involved in the crossing of the Jordan,
Joshua 3:11-17; 4:7, 11, 18. The Ark held back the water.

The Ark was used as an offensive weapon on Jericho, Joshua 6:4-12.

The Ark was captured by the Philistines. They had nothing but trouble
with it, so they sent it back, 1 Sam 4:3-11; compare also 5:7, 7:2.

The Ark stayed at Kiriath-Jearim (1 Sam 7:2) until David moved the Ark
to Jerusalem,

A soldier was killed for handling it, 2 Samual 6:1-19.

Solomon had the Ark put in the temple when it was built, 1 Kings 8:6-9.
It stayed there except during the reign of Manasseh, who put up phallic
images in the Holy of Holies. It was restored by the Levites, 2 Chron.
35:3.

The Ark was destroyed in 586 BC, under the fifth cycle of discipline, by
Nebuchadnezzar. There is no record of its ever being replaced. Why?
Because it was no longer needed, says Jer. 3:16.

The Ark in relation to the mercy seat, Hebrews 9:4; Romans 3.

1.  The wood represents Christ’s humanity, the gold His deity.

2.  The tables of the Law represent sin in the sense of transgression of
    known divine laws.

3.  Aaron’s rod that budded represents sin in revolt against God’s
    order.

4.  The pot of manna represents sin as rejection of God’s provision.

5.  Sin inside the Ark is a picture of the work of the cross. Christ
    bore our sins inside of Himself.

6.  The mercy seat is God’s side of the cross. The cherubs represent the
    perfect righ­teousness and justice of the Father, both of which are
    satisfied by the blood of Christ, sprinkled on the mercy seat.

7.  In the Millennium the presence of Christ replaces the Ark.

**From International Standard Bible Encyclopedia.**

The **Ark of the Covenant was a** portable chest of acacia wood
containing various articles and serving as the meeting place of Yahweh
with Israel.

I. Biblical Data
----------------

***A. Pentateuch***Ex. 25:10–22 records the command to Moses to build an
ark of acacia wood. Within this ark were to be placed the “testimony”
(Heb *‘eḏûṯ*), an apparent reference in this context to the tables of
the law that God was about to give to Moses. Upon the top of the ark,
probably not as a lid but above the lid, the mercy seat (Heb *kappōreṯ*;
Gk *hilastḗrion*, He. 9:5) was to be placed. This was a golden plate
upon which two cherubim, with raised wings and facing each other,
covered the ark. From the place between the two cherubim God promised to
speak to Moses, and the whole structure was to be placed in the
innermost room (holy of holies) of the tabernacle (Ex. 26:33).

In Deuteronomy the.ark’s origin is the subject of a much abbreviated
narrative, the command to build and its execution forming part of the
account of Moses’ creation of the second two tablets of the law (Dt.
10:1–5). Commentators have often pointed out that the parallel account
in Exodus would be found in Ex. 33:1–6, and many have argued that
following v 6 there must originally have been a statement concerning the
erection of the sacred ark. Adherents to the documentary theory hold
that this material, which consists of E-document narrative interposed
within the dominant P source for the legal prescriptions, was originally
separate from the entire section on the tabernacle and its furnishings,
and should therefore contain some record of the making of the ark. If
the material is parallel to that in Dt. 10, however, it is not clear
that the making of the ark should in fact be introduced in Ex. 33 rather
than in Ex. 34, following the commandment to make two additional tablets
of stone. What has given rise to the suggestion is not some kind of
exact parallel with the Deuteronomic material, but rather the enigmatic
nature of the reference to God’s withdrawal in Ex. 33:1–6 and the
subsequent apparent reversal of this action in vv 7ff If the ark is the
symbol of God’s presence in Israel, it should logically figure in the
narrative at some point; thus the attempt to match this narrative with
that of Dt. 10.

A final reference of note is found in Nu. 10:33–36, in which appears the
so-called Song of the Ark. This passage, considered to be very early by
most critics, establishes the ark’s position as accompanying Israel in
its wilderness journeying. The “Song,” which will be considered again
below, seems to identify Yahweh and the ark in the closest possible
fashion.

***B. Historical Books***According to the narrative in Josh. 3 the ark
cooperated at the crossing of the Jordan in such a way that the waters
of the river ceased to flow as soon as the feet of the priests who were
carrying the ark entered the water, and that they stood still above that
point until these priests left the bed of the river. In the account of
the solemn march around Jericho, which according to ch 6 caused the
walls of the city to fall, the carrying of the ark around the city is
regarded as an essential feature in vv 4, 7, 11. In ch 7 it is narrated
that Joshua, after the defeat of the army before Ai, lamented and prayed
before the ark. In 8:30–34 the ark is mentioned as forming the central
focus for the assemblage of Israel on Ebal and Gerizim, an action
reminiscent of the later assembly in Shechem (ch 24) which contains,
however, no record of the ark.

Just where the ark was during the period of the judges is still a matter
of some uncertainty. According to Josh. 18:1 the center of the
amphictyony had moved to Shiloh during the time of Joshua, though the
tent of meeting, not the ark, is mentioned in this connection. A brief
reference in Jgs. 2:1 to a movement of “the angel of the Lord” from
Gilgal to Bochim (LXX adds “unto Bethel”) has given rise to the idea
that at least one tradition saw the ark in Bethel during the entire
period. This, so the argument goes, is confirmed by the ark’s appearance
in Bethel at the close of the period of the judges (Jgs. 20:18, 26–28),
and the lack of mention of Shiloh in Jgs. 20. Such arguments are not
entirely convincing when it is noted that Judges does, like Joshua,
place the religious center of the amphictyony in Shiloh (18:31).
Furthermore, the cult center is called the house of God (*bêṯ
ha’*<sup>*e*</sup>*lōhîm*) in that passage, and it is quite possible
that the reference to Bethel (Heb *bêṯ-’ēl*, “house of God”) in ch 20 is
also a reference to the ark or tent of meeting in Shiloh. Conversely,
the ark could well have been resident in Shiloh but simply moved to
Bethel for convenience at the battle, although 20:27 seems to indicate a
period of general residence for the ark in that place. In view of the
otherwise unbroken testimony to the ark’s presence in Shiloh (excepting
only the LXX of Jgs. 2:1) it seems best to explain the Bethel reference
by some means such as that suggested above.

At the time of Eli the ark stood in the sanctuary at Shiloh (1 S. 3:3).
It was taken from this place after Israel had been defeated by the
Philistines at Ebenezer, in order to assure the help of Yahweh to the
people, but instead of this the ark fell into the hands of the
Philistines (ch 4). The various misfortunes that then afflicted the
Philistines induced them to regard the possession of the ark as a
calamity (ch 5), and they sent it back to Israel (ch 6). It was taken
first to Beth-shemesh in the border-country between Philistia and Judah
and soon after to Kiriath-jearim about 7 1/2 mi (12 km) NW of Jerusalem.
There the ark remained for years (unless 1 S. 14:18 be an exception, but
cf. the LXX where “ephod” is read in place of “ark”) in the house of a
man named Abinadab, whose son was its guardian (7:1), until David had it
removed to Mt. Zion after he had established his camp and court there.
He placed it in a tent (*see* Tabernacle) prepared for it (2 S. 6; 1 Ch.
16:1).

In David’s time the ark was taken again into battle (2 S. 11:11). When
David fled from Absalom the priests wanted to accompany him with the
ark, but he sent it back (2 S. 15:24f). David had also intended to build
a temple in which the ark was to be located, since before this it had
always found its resting-place in a tent. But God forbade this through
Nathan, because He was willing to build a house for David, but unwilling
that David should build one for Him (2 S. 7). Solomon then built the
temple and placed the ark of the covenant in the holy of holies, where
it was located under the wings of two mighty cherubim images (1 K. 8; 2
Ch. 5).

***C. Prophetic and Poetic Books***Jer. 3:16 states that in the future
new Jerusalem nobody will concern himself about the ark, nor make an
attempt to rebuild it — presumably in view of the ark’s loss or
destruction in the collapse of the city in 586 b.c. Only one reference
in the Psalms explicitly mentions the ark (Ps. 132), but recent study of
this psalm in connection with 2 S. 6 has convinced commentators that
there is a whole genre of praise literature properly associated with the
ark narratives in Samuel. Even considering the excesses to which this
kind of scholarship has tended in modern times, it is certainly
reasonable to see in various references within the Psalms (e.g., 78:61;
26:8) allusions to the ark. One need not reorient Israel around an
illusionary New Year’s Festival to appreciate the enthronement nature of
certain psalms and the reenactment of the ascent of the ark in
connection with the liturgical celebration of the new king, or the
ultimate position of Yahweh as the truly enthroned monarch of Israel. To
say that the king and the ark were probably in close contact does not,
however, justify claims that the ark was considered a repository for
Yahweh or that the king represented Yahweh in a cultic reenactment. The
Lord was from the beginning in heaven, although His presence was somehow
implied in the possession of the little rectangular chest that figured
so prominently in Israel’s history and, undoubtedly, its worship as
well.

***D. New Testament***In the NT the ark of the covenant is mentioned
only in He. 9:4, in the description of the Jewish tabernacle, though a
heavenly counterpart does appear in Rev. 11:19.

II. Form of the Ark
-------------------

The ark was a chest made of acacia wood, 2 1/2 cubits long. 1 1/2 cubits
wide, and 1 1/2 cubits high. That there are two widely varying
traditions, whereby the ark is represented in the so-called P document
as an elaborate golden shrine, and in the earlier narratives as a simple
wooden chest, is not clear from the Scriptures themselves. The statement
of Dt. 10:3 and the full account of instructions in Ex. 25 are in
agreement so far as they go. Exodus, in addition to mentioning an
acacia-wood chest, goes on to prescribe an overlay of gold within and
without, and a molding of gold running all around. At the feet of the
ark were to be four rings of gold for use with the gold-covered carrying
staves. These staves are also mentioned in 1 K. 8:7f; 2 Ch. 5:8f, while
reference is often made to those who carried the ark (2 S. 6:13; 15:24).
Such carefully crafted wooden chests with gold overlay are known from
the time of Tutankhamen and earlier (ANEP, nos 318, 548) and need cause
no incredulity when set in the context of Israelite handiwork following
the exodus from Egypt.

On top of the ark was the gold *kappōreṯ* or “mercy-seat,” flanked by
two gold cherubim (*see* Cherubim) with outstretched wings. In the later
temple of Solomon the ark was placed between two much more massive
cherub figures (1 K. 6:19, 23ff; 8:6), a fact which does not prove that
there were no cherubim on the ark itself, or even that those cherubim,
which according to Ex. 25:19 were found on the ark, were nothing else
than those of Solomon’s days transferred in imagination to an earlier
period. Excavations from Syria-Palestine have uncovered a variety of
symbolic winged creatures from the late 2nd and early 1st millennium
b.c. (ANEP, nos 644–659).

III. Contents
-------------

Unbroken tradition in the pentateuchal narratives (including both the
so-called P and D sources) affirms that from the beginning the ark
served as a container for the tables of the law (Ex. 25:16; 40:20; Dt.
10:5; 1 K. 8:9). Arguments of older critics who felt that the receptacle
concept of the ark was incompatible with the idea of the ark as a
dwelling place or throne for Yahweh have now been set aside by evidence
from the ancient Near East (cf. deVaux, p. 301) showing that the
covenant or treaty was often placed beneath the feet of a god who served
as witness to it. In similar form, the Ten Words form the basis for the
covenant of which the ark was the symbol. Note that the common
Deuteronomic term “ark of the covenant” is replaced in Exodus by the
term “ark of the testimony,” similarly a reference to the tables of the
law as covenant witnesses.

![](data:image/png;base64,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)

Relief of Torah shrine (ark of the law) from second-century a.d. Jewish
catacomb at Beth Shearim (Consulate General of Israel in New York)

Additional objects within the ark were but two. According to Ex. 16:33f
a pot of manna was to be placed “before the Lord” or “before the
testimony” as a witness throughout the generations. Nu. 17 furnishes
evidence that Aaron’s rod was similarly placed “before the testimony,”
this time as a sign for would-be rebels in Israel; and He. 9:4 confirms
the tradition that the testimony spoken of in both passages was, or
became, the law tablets within the ark of the covenant.

IV. Names
---------

Over twenty different designations appear with reference to the ark, and
discerning any invariable pattern in usage is difficult. Certainly the
long narratives of Exodus in which directions are given for the
tabernacle favor the designation “ark of the testimony” or simply “the
ark.” The so-called Deuteronomic term “ark of the covenant of the Lord”
is uniformly used in Deuteronomy, but also appears in the very old “Song
of the Ark” passage of Nu. 10:33–35 (JE). Joshua seems to use “ark of
the covenant of the Lord” and “ark of the Lord” indiscriminately, as do
the Samuel-Kings narratives, which add frequently the term “ark of God.”
Some indication of the complexity of the problem is found in an
examination of Josh. 4, where the ark is mentioned seven times. It is
called the “ark of the Lord” (vv 5, 11), the “ark of the covenant of the
Lord” (vv 7, 18), the “ark of the covenant” (v 9), the “ark” (v 10), and
the “ark of the testimony” (v 16). The last designation is especially
significant, as it appears nowhere else outside of the pentateuchal
narratives claimed for the P document, and is considered a clear mark of
P.

V. Origin
---------

Nineteenth-centurv scholarship produced various suggestions concerning
the ark’s origin, including the view that it was a shrine taken over by
Israel from the Canaanites after the entry into Palestine. Another
theory saw in the ark an ancient palladium of the tribe of Ephraim which
was only at a later period recognized by all Israel. Contemporary
scholarship recognizes that the Mosaic connection with the ark, deeply
embedded in each of the traditions (cf. Ex. 25; Nu. 10:33–36; Dt. 10),
must reflect the situation in the desert, confirming the Bible’s own
testimony that the ark accompanied the children of Israel from Sinai
onward.

VI. Significance
----------------

The ark has been variously interpreted as (1) the extension or
embodiment of the presence of Yahweh; (2) a war palladium of Israel’s
amphictyony; (3) a container for the tables of the law; and (4) a
portable throne for the invisible presence of Yahweh. We have already
shown that the container idea is both original and compatible with other
concepts put forth. Proposal (2) is favored in light of texts such as 1
S. 4 and 2 S. 11:11 which show that the ark was taken into battle in
order to enlist the divine help. Note also the word of Moses which he
spoke when the ark was taken up to be carried: “Arise, O Lord, and let
thy enemies be scattered” (Nu. 10:35). However, nothing of what we know
or presuppose concerning the form and contents of the ark points to an
original military purpose, and in other statements concerning the ark a
much more general significance is assigned to it. The importance of the
ark for Israel in connection with her wars is only the outcome of the
significance as the symbol of the presence of Yahweh, a God whose
presence was necessary if His people were to be victorious in their
struggle.

Proposals (1) and (4) may be taken together, as both refer to the deeply
rooted idea that the ark somehow meant Yahweh was present. The throne
concept has arisen from the epithet of Yahweh of Hosts who is “enthroned
upon the cherubim” (1 S. 4:4; 2 S. 6:2; 2 K. 19:15; etc.). In postexilic
times it was promised that Jerusalem itself would be the throne of
Yahweh, a fact that would render the ark superfluous (Jer. 3:16f); and
in the prophecy of Ezekiel it is specifically said that the temple is
both throne and footstool for the Lord (Ezk. 43:7). Much was made of
this material, and parallels have been drawn from various areas of the
ancient Near East in which empty thrones were a part of the sacred
furnishings of a temple. However, inasmuch as the ark in the OT is
always described as an ark (Lat *arca,* “chest”) and never as a throne
or seat, it seems best to take these references to a throne in a
somewhat figurative sense. What is clear is that the ark was designed to
be a symbol of the presence of God in the midst of His people. When the
people were to leave the mountain where God had caused them to realize
His presence (Ex. 30:6), the ark was made to serve as a comfortable
assurance that He would indeed accompany them on the journey. In Ex.
25:21f, God promised to meet with Moses and to speak with him from above
the *kappōreṯ*, between the two cherubim upon the ark. When Israel in
the time of Eli was overpowered by the Philistines, the Israelites sent
for the ark in order that Yahweh should come into the camp of Israel,
and this was also believed to be the case by the Philistines (1 S.
4:3ff). After the ark had come to Beth-shemesh and a pestilence had
broken out there, the people did not want to keep the ark, because no
one could live in the presence of Yahweh, this holy God (1 S. 6:20).
Jeremiah says (3:16f) that an ark of the covenant would not be made
again after the restoration, because the city itself, as God’s throne,
would guarantee the presence of God at least as much as the ark formerly
did.

In all the discussion it is foolish to press the aspect of physical
presence to great lengths. That Yahweh was present with His people is
clear from the texts. But that Yahweh was confined to the ark runs
counter both to Hebrew notions about the nonspatial nature of God, and
to the explicit statements of Scripture which, dating from the same
times, mention God dwelling in many places both within and outside of
Canaan. The statement of Moses, “Arise, 0 Lord, and let thy enemies be
scattered” (Nu. 10:35), is not the command addressed to those who carry
the ark to lift it up and thereby elevate Yahweh for the journey, but is
a demand made upon Yahweh, in accordance with His promise, to go ahead
of Israel as the ark does. According to 1 S. 4:3 the Israelites did not
say, “We want to go and get the Lord,” but “We want to go and get the
ark of the Lord, that he may come among us.” They accordingly wanted
only to induce Him to come by getting the ark. This, too, the priests
and the soothsayers of the Philistines say: “Do not send away the ark of
the God of Israel empty [i.e., without a gift]” (1 S. 6:3), but they do
not speak as though they really thought Yahweh was Himself confined
therein. That Samuel, who slept near the ark, when he was addressed by
the Lord did not at all originally think that the Lord was addressing
him, proves that at that time the view did not prevail that He was in
the ark or had His seat upon it. Ancient Israel was therefore evidently
of the conviction that the ark was closely connected with Yahweh, and
that something of His power was inherent in the ark; consequently the
feeling prevailed that when near the ark they were in a special way in
the presence of the Lord. But this is something different from the
opinion that the ark was, in the very literal sense, a seat or dwelling
place of Yahweh. Ancient man was not conscious to the extent we are of
the difference between the symbolic presence and the literal reality,
but that this difference was felt is not a matter of doubt.

That the ark was built to embody the presence of God among His people
seems equally clear from each one of the supposed documents of the
documentary theory, though the tables of the law, rather than Yahweh
Himself, constituted the contents of the ark. What would have been
better adapted to make the presence of God felt as a reality than the
stone tables with the Ten Words, through which the Lord had made known
to His people His ethical character? For the words on these tables were
a kind of spiritual portrait of the God of Israel, who could not be
pictured in a bodily form, but whose living, holy presence was a vital
element in His people’s daily life.

W. Lotz  
M. G. Kyle  
C. E. Armerding

