---
title: "Armor of God"
pdf: "armorofgod.pdf"
description: "An exposition of Eph. 6:10-17; a discussion of demon organization and tactics; history of Roman armor to explain vocabulary."
subtitle: An Exposition of Ephesians 6:10-17
template: topic.jade
---

The apostle Paul had life long contact with the Roman army. He was a
Roman citizen and very patriotic; and his admiration of the fighting
forces of Rome was great.

The Roman army was at its peak of efficiency during the early Christian
era. It served as police and frontier guard over all of Europe, the
borders with Asia and North Africa. Paul had many dealings with Roman
legionnaires.

* A Roman soldier delivered Paul from the mob in Ephesus.

* Roman soldiers saved his life when the mob in Jerusalem wanted to kill
him in the temple area.

* The Roman soldiers were able to deliver Paul out of Jerusalem from the
hands of the religious leaders who wanted him dead and they brought him
safely to Caesarea.

* It was Roman soldiers who escorted Paul on the trip from Caesarea to
Rome which is the voyage on which Paul suffered shipwreck.

* Roman soldiers delivered Paul to the Roman garrison of the Praetorian
Guard for his imprisonment.

The Praetorian Guard represents everything that is famous in Roman
history. Their ranks were made up of the best and most experienced
combat tested centurions, comparable to the finest from West Point,
Sandhurst, St. Cyr, etc. They were comparable to the best combat units
of modern times, such as Special Forces, 1st Marines, Patton’s 3rd Army,
the Coldstream Guard, Big Red One, etc. In Roman history, the man who
wanted to be Emperor had first to win the favor of the Praetorian Guard.

Every man in the ranks was a respected veteran, one of the most highly
trained warriors in history. The commander of the Guard was a chiliarch
who maintained the strictest discipline and combat training, even though
all ranks were seasoned combat veterans.

The emperor of Rome at the time of Paul’s first imprisonment was Nero
(Lucius Domitius Ahenobarbus), a member of one of the most distinguished
families of military men and politicians; a family of genius, but Nero
himself was insane. As long as Nero listened to the counsel of Seneca,
he was more or less an enlightened monarch; and he managed to judge Paul
fairly during the first imprisonment.

Paul wrote the epistle to the Ephesians during the period of his house
arrest in Rome while he was guarded by a centurion of the Praetorian
Guard. Paul witnessed to many guards during his two years under house
arrest; and as these men were posted to other countries, they carried
the gospel with them. Paul recognized the mission field of the military
and understood very well God’s plan in having him in Rome under these
conditions.

This passage of Ephesians has as its background a large number of Roman
military metaphors, as you might suppose. Military terminology is seen
in a great deal of Paul writings; for example:

* In Gal. 6:17, Paul talks about bearing in his body the mark of the
Lord Jesus. In history, this mark was a brand placed on the back of the
left hand of a Roman soldier who had finished basic training. It was a
high honor and the sign of a man’s man.

* Note the military terms in 2 Tim. 2:3,4. Paul wrote 2 Timothy during
his second imprisonment.

* Roman military drill is the background of the terminology in Gal.
5:25; 1 Thess. 5:14; Col. 2:5.

* 1 Cor. 15:20-23 describes the doctrine of the resurrection of
believers in terms of a military parade. There are two battalions of
believers passing in review, first those who were dead, then those who
are alive and remain.

* In 1 Cor. 14:8, Paul described the military commands given by a
trumpet. The idea here is that those who speak in tongues cause
confusion in the ranks.

* In Gal. 1:6, Paul speaks of legalists as having gone absent without
leave (AWOL) from the Gospel of Jesus Christ.

* In Phil. 4:6,7, Paul refers to the mounting of the guard.

Eph. 6:10-12 provides, in military terms, an estimate of the situation.
Such an estimate is based on facts gathered and analyzed by
reconnaissance and intelligence personnel. Questions to be answered are:

Who is the enemy?

Where is the enemy?

What are his strength and disposition and his supporting units?

What is his logistical support and where are his supply lines?

What are his weaknesses?

What is the terrain like where the battle will be fought?

## Ephesians 6:10 ##

*“As to the remaining teaching, receive great inner strength from the
Lord and in the inner power of His endowed power.”*

**finally**…Literally, as to the remaining, but in this context, now to
get down to the final planning for attack. Paul wants the Christian to
go on the offensive against unseen forces, the forces of Satan.

**be strong**… This phrase is from the present passive imperative of
**endunamao**, a reference to inner strength or moral courage.

Success in battle is always based on moral courage. The present tense
used here indicates that moral courage must be used continuously. The
passive voice shows that this courage is received by the believer from
the Lord as a product of grace. The imperative is the mood of command;
You are ordered to receive great moral courage!

This courage comes through Christian growth in maturity, the faith/grace
process for Biblical perception and application.

Read 2 Cor. 10:3-6. Our weapons are the weapons of the soul; this is how
the believer receives strength. The basic emphasis in Christianity is
not doing something but thinking something. Divine production follows
divine thinking. The soul is armed when the believer is edified.

Bible truth applied to the life will include orientation to grace, a
relaxed mental attitude, a capacity for personal and impersonal love,
great inner peace and happiness, and a divine frame of reference. These
are all ingredients of moral courage.

**in the Lord**… The Lord is the source of our strength and training.

**in the power**… The instrumental case of **kratos**, meaning “inner
power” or self-discipline.

**of his might**… **ischus**, endowed power. The source for everything
is the Lord Himself. See Acts 1:8. This takes us back to Eph. 5:18 and
reminds us of the necessity of the Holy Spirit’s control.

## Ephesians 6:11 ##

*“Put on all of your spiritual military equipment so that you may have
the ability to stand in the ranks, face to face with the strategies of
Satan.”*

**Put on**… The phrase refers to the soldier picking up his equipment
and weapons. This a verb in the middle voice, indicating that the
believer receives benefit from putting on the armor.

**the whole armor**… **panoplia**, all armor and weapons; so, all
military equipment. The English cognate is panoply.

There were three types of soldiers in the Roman army that wore armor and
carried these types of weapons.

The *hastati* (from **hasta**, javelin) were less experienced soldiers
under training. They were usually not well trained with the more
sophisticated weapons such as the spear, machaira sword, or bow. These
troops were usually not used in the main battle, but only in the opening
skirmish when javelins were thrown at the advancing enemy. The new
believer is the hastati in the Christian life. He is not trained with
much in the way of weapons because he is still ignorant of a lot of
God’s word.

The *princeps* were somewhat more advanced. This was a young, vigorous,
strong soldier, equivalent in this analogy to the vigorous advancing
Christian who is beginning to operate on a divine frame of reference.

The third line of battle was composed of the *triarii*, the veterans,
soldiers who could move into any area of combat and were well trained
with all weapons.

**that ye may be able**… D**unamai** is the ordinary Greek word for
ability. This is the ability which is the result of edification; and it
is the main source of strength in the angelic conflict.

**to stand**… **histomi**; This is the readiness of the combat soldier,
the Christian centurion, armed, tough, unyielding, with pride and
motivation.

Standing is the first thing taught in unarmed combat or martial arts.
One of the first things taught in judo, for instance, is how to break
the stance of the opponent. The Gauls, against whom the Romans fought
many campaigns, under Julius Caesar and others, were human tanks in the
sense that their ability to take a very strong combat stance made them
difficult to defeat in individual combat.

Every believer is a member of the combat team and is required to take
his own part, to stand on his own. We are armed with spiritual gifts and
equipment, provided by Grace, to fight against the forces of Satan.

**against the wiles of the devil**… **methodeia**, face to face with the
strategies of Satan.

## Ephesians 6:12 ##

*“Because our combat is not face to face with human beings but, by
contrast, is in confrontation with demon rulers, military commanders of
Satan, world-rulers of the darkness, and spirits of evil in the
heavenlies.”*

**for we wrestle** … These words refer to any sort of personal combat.
In the military sense, it refers to military contact with the enemy.

**not against flesh and blood** …that is, not face to face with human
beings.

**but** … in contrast to the foregoing

**against**…face to face with the following roster of the Satanic
organization.

**principalities**… A**rchon** is a word in Greek for one of the highest
rulers.

This word first shows up in the Attic Greek (Athens) in the days of the
Athenian democracy. The *archon* was the president or preeminent
decision maker in Athens. The number two man was called *bassileus
archon*, or king ruler. The third man was called *polymark*, a military
ruler. The following six leaders in Athens were the *thesmoteitai* or
legislators. Even though there was democracy, there was no anarchy in
Athens because these leaders kept things under control.

The Satanic organization has a number of supreme rulers; how many is not
known.

**powers** … from **eksousias**, commissioned officers; therefore, a
secondary group of demon rulers.

**rulers of the darkness of this world** .. The phrase ruler of this
world is all one word in Greek: **kosmokrator** [world + ruler]. The
word **skotos** follows; therefore the phrase should read world rulers
of darkness.

These demonic rulers are Satan’s supporting organization; analogous to
logistics, intelligence, special weapons units, etc.

Satan has a special force of high ranking demons to make attacks against
prominent officials and heads of nations.

In Daniel 10:13f, the term prince of Persia refers to a fallen angel, a
demon, who was busy attacking the ruler of Persia. Gabriel was delayed
in bringing a message to Daniel because he was in conflict with this
kosmokrator demon. The archangel Michael came to help and released
Gabriel to come to Daniel.

In Dan. 10:20, the prince of Grecia is mentioned, referring to the demon
in charge of mounting attacks against the ruler of Greece who was
Alexander the Great at that time.

The principle is that Satan will vigorously attack any nation which
protects the divine institutions, allows personal freedom to its
citizens and protects the nation against immorality. In nations like
that there is evangelism and missionary activity, so demon activity will
be stepped up with respect to those countries.

In addition, all Christian believers are placed under direct attack in
the world system, with particularly heavy attacks against those who are
advancing in the Christian way of life.

**spiritual wickedness in high places** … literally, spirits of evil in
the heavenlies. This refers to the rank and file of demons which perform
numerous functions.

## Ephesians 6:13 ##

*“Because of this, continually take up the whole armor of God, that you
may be able to take your position in combat, and when all is finished
that you may remain standing.”*

The question arises as to why God allows the spiritual warfare or the
angelic conflict to continue. One reason is that in every generation,
God permits Satan to use his genius to attack the plan of God and the
principle of grace in the plan. Pressures are brought to bear on
believers so that the divine provisions of grace may be made manifest.

**wherefore**…because of. Refers to the previous statements regarding
spiritual warfare against demons. Hence, because of Satan’s organization
and activities, take the whole armor of God.

**take**… imperative of **analambano**, to take; to seize with a prefix
which adds the idea of repetition to the verb. We must seize or take
again and again the armor of God. As an example, one piece of the armor
is truth (verse 14). This piece of armor must be put on every day.

In any group of Christians there are two types, those who are ready and
those who are not ready. A uniform of armor must be taken up and put on
whenever combat is anticipated. For the Christian, combat is continuous.
The emphasis of this verb is do not get caught without your armor on!

**the whole armor of God**…**panoplia**. The *hastati*, the *princeps*,
and the *triarii* all wore the same basic armor. In the following
verses, the individual parts of the armor are described.

**that ye may be able to stand**…

The following passages of scripture provide excellent illustration of
the concept of the Christian’s "stand.

1 Cor. 15:57,58

Psa. 16:8; 21:7; 55:22; 125:1

Gal. 5:1

Phil. 1:27

1 Pet. 5:5-11

Psa. 46:5; 66:9; 112:6; 121:3

Prov. 10:30

1 Cor. 10:12

Job 11:14,15

Acts 11:23

Phil. 4:1

1 Thess. 5:21

2 Thess. 2:15

Heb. 3:6; 4:14; 10:23

**against the wiles of the devil**…

See Topics: Satan and Demons which describe his particular strategies.
Also, refer to notes on demon activity in the previous discussion on
Ephesians 6:12.

**and having done all, to stand.**

## Ephesians 6:14 ##

*“Stand, therefore, having about your waist the equipment belt of truth,
and having put on the breastplate of divine righteousness;”*

With this verse begins the categorization of the Christian’s armor,
using by way of illustration the armor of the Roman soldier.

**stand therefore**… aorist active imperative of **histomi**, the
ordinary verb for standing, but in this context “to stand in military
rank”.

Grammar Note: In verses 14 to 17 there is a string of verbs, all of
which are aorist participles in the middle voice. These are the verbs
such as take or put on associated with putting on the pieces of armor.
The Greek aorist participles have the same standing in a context as the
English past participle in that the action of the participles precedes
the action of the main verb in the sentence. The idea is that before a
soldier can take his place in the ranks, he must be outfitted and
trained.

**having your loins girt about** …The aorist middle participle of
**perizunumi means** to put around.

The Roman soldier put around his waist a very wide belt which was the
holder for a lot of equipment. There was a loop, for example, for the
scabbard for the machaira sword. Other loops held ropes and a rations
sack. When the legions conquered a city, the soldiers would empty out
the ration sack to make room for gold, jewelry and other loot they
picked up.

There were loops on the belt for darts. The belt was tied in several
places to stay in place, so that no matter how the soldier moved about,
fell down, climbed hills, etc., the belt was always in place with
weapons at the ready. There were designs stitched into the belt which
designated various campaigns in which the veteran had fought. Instead of
campaign medals or ribbons, the soldier would weave into the belt
something he had taken during the battle.

**with truth**… A**leitheia**, refers to truth taught accurately. This
is the belt of the Christian soldier.

**and having on**.. Having put on the breastplate of righteousness.

**the breastplate**… **thoraka**, English cognate is thorax. This was
attached to the belt and provided protection for the upper torso, front
and back.

In the ancient world, breastplates were of layers of cloth, sometimes
with metal greaves attached. The Greeks introduced a bronze breastplate,
with bronze plates covering vital areas or the torso, held together with
leather or cloth connections. Some Samaritans noticed that horses’
hooves, cattle horns, etc., were made of very hard material, so they
began to use horn sewed to cloth to protect from blows.

The Romans had the ideas for armor design which provided light weight
combined with ease of movement and protection from blows. The best type
was called the thorax stadias, or breastplate which stands by itself.
This breastplate was attached to the belt by leather thongs passed
through rings on the bottom to keep it solidly attached. It was anchored
to the belt and it was above the belt. Note: The belt had to be put on
first, then the breastplate.

**of righteousness**… The righteousness of God is basic protection for
the believer. The belt of truth combined with the breastplate of
righteousness is the basis for the edification of the Christian.

Eph. 4:12,16,29

## Ephesians 6:15 ##

*“Having shod your feet by means of full preparedness in the good news
of God’s peace.”*

**And your feet shod** …to bind with sandals. The sandal was the combat
boot for the Roman army. This is a reference to the foot soldier
slogging it out. The infantryman fights with the least glamor and the
highest casualties.

While the Greek soldier wore greaves to protect his ankles, the Roman
soldier wore a heavy soled sandal which had metal studs on the bottom
for good footing on uneven or slippery ground. This shoe was known in
Latin as the caligula, so the foot soldier was called caligatus.
Officers wore different foot gear.

**with the preparation of** - **etoimasia**, refers to full
preparedness, being able to march great distances in order, with others,
and over a long period of time, to use weapons effectively.

**the gospel of peace**…We are to be ready at any time to minister the
gospel. All believers are included in this command. Every Christian is
in full time Christian service, always on the front line.

Even a Christian who does not want to fight is in the conflict. A
soldier may be untrained or in poor condition and drop beside the road
before the enemy is reached or he may be killed in the first skirmish.

The primary thrust of evangelism is through the individual. There is a
place for those with the spiritual gift of evangelism; but these men can
reach only a specialized segment of the population. Individual believers
circulate throughout the community in various functions. They have jobs;
they belong to clubs; they have certain friends. The principle or
witnessing for Christ is that you do it in your own environment.

Preparation implies the ability to fight. Preparation means flexibility
and the ability to use God’s Word in witnessing. Knowledge of the basic
doctrines of salvation is necessary for witnessing and not salesmanship
techniques. You need to know about reconciliation, propitiation,
redemption, imputation, regeneration and the barrier, as a start. You do
not have your shoes on your feet without this preparation.

Notes on personal witnessing

* Witnessing for Christ is the responsibility of every believer. Acts
1:8; 1 Pet. 3:15; Mk. 5:18,19.

* The effectiveness and clarity of the believer’s witnessing depends, in
large measure, on his understanding of the last judgment. Sins will not
be the issue! The only reason that a person will stand at the last
judgment is that he rejected Christ during his lifetime. John 3:18;
3:36. All sins have been judged at the cross, and there is no double
jeopardy.

* The basis for the indictment of unbelievers is human good and not
sins. The witnessing Christian must make the issue clear.

* Witnessing is impossible apart from the filling of the Holy Spirit.
John 16:8-11. The Holy Spirit must minister to the unbeliever to apply
the doctrine of salvation.

* The context for witnessing is that part of the word of God called the
gospel. 1 Cor. 1:18; Eph. 6:17; Heb. 4:12.

* The dynamics of witnessing depends on the believer’s mental attitude.
One cannot be an effective witness if he is ashamed of the gospel, if he
does not have the capacity to be occupied with Christ, or if he is not
oriented to grace.

* In Rom. 1:14-16, the apostle Paul says I am debtor, I am ready, and I
am not ashamed. A fisherman has a desire to fish. One is not a fisher of
men without a desire to win souls.

* There are two sources for a Christian’s witness: (1) the testimony of
his life, 2 Cor. 3:3, and (2) the testimony of his lips, 2 Cor. 5:14-21.

* There is a reward for witnessing. 1 Cor. 3:11-16; 2 Cor. 5:10. Rewards
in heaven are an extension of edification; the only things that are
rewarded in heaven is what is done on the basis of grace. Thus, every
reward in heaven is an eternal memorial to the grace of God. Grace means
that rewards do not reflect any personal glory or merit. It is the Lord
who enables us to labor for Him and who provides the divine production
leading to the life rewards defined as gold, silver and precious stones.

## Ephesians 6:16 ##

*“In addition to all this, having taken up the shield of the believer’s
faith, wherewith ye shall be able to extinguish or cut off the fire
arrows of the wicked one.”*

**above all** …or, in addition to all. This phrase does not mean that
the following item of equipment is greater, but that it is simply to be
added to the above.

**taking** … The word is an aorist active participle of **analambano**,
to pick up something, as from the ground, repeatedly. The main verb is
stand in Ephesians 6:. 14, so this action precedes the action of the
main verb.

**the shield of faith …thureos.**

The Romans had a long, rectangular, knees-to-chin shield which protected
from arrows and spears and could be knelt behind during an arrow
barrage. It was quite a bit heavier and clumsier that the smaller Greek
circular shield; but there was a series of exercises, a manual of arms,
designed to give the soldier flexibility and strength in the use of the
shield. Groups of soldier who were besieging a town could form close
together and hold their shields over their heads to make a huge testudo,
or turtle, to protect the group from missiles.

The Romans were known by some of their enemies as the soldiers who
carried a door (**thureos**) into battle. The Franks of Cisalpine and
Transalpine Gaul ridiculed these smaller men because of the great
cumbersome shields they carried. But the barbarians were surprised in
battle when the little Romans, with their great discipline, their
consummate fighting skills and their mental attitude of victory, wiped
up the ground with the disorganized, vacillating Gauls.

In this verse, the Roman shield stands for the faith of the believer in
the promises of God. The value of faith lies not in the person
exercising it, but in the object. Faith is something that all people
possess and use every day. It is a non-meritorious system of thinking
and decision making. Most of what we learn, we learn by faith.

Topics: Faith; Faith Rest

**wherewith** …by means of which

**ye shall be able** …future active indicative of **dunamai**, a verb of
ability or power. Implied in the future tense is that there will be a
training period in the use of the shield before battle comes. In the
Christian life, the training period is the time during which promises
and doctrines are learned and practiced.

**to quench** … aorist active infinitive of **sbeinumi** , to
extinguish, to break off, to chop off.

**the fiery darts** … missiles which have been set on fire, a reference
to fire arrows.

Persians used fire arrows against the Greeks in the days of Xerxes.
Herodotus makes reference to these in his description of the attack
against the citadel at Athens, referring to arrows dipped in tar and set
afire before shooting them.

Thucydides, in his book on the Peloponessian wars describes the Spartans
in the siege of Platea, “The Plateans constructed a wooden frame which
they set upon the top of their own wall opposite the mound (built by
Spartans). They were trying to outbuild each other to get the high angle
of fire for their arrows. They also constructed curtains of skins and
hides to protect the front of the wooden platform. These were designed
to protect the woodwork and the workers against the blazing arrows of
the Spartans.”

The Roman historian Livy, in his History, described the siege of
Saguntum in which the Saguntians had designed giant darts to be fired by
a catapult. “There was used by the Saguntines a missile called
follerica, with the shaft of a fir tree, and round in all its parts,
except at the point from which the iron projected. This part, which was
square, they bound with tow and smeared with pitch.”

“But what caused the greatest fear with this weapon, even though it
should stick in the shield and did not penetrated into the body, was
that when it was discharged with the middle part on fire, it bore along
a much greater flame produced by the mere motion, and obliged the
soldier to drop his shield and expose himself.”

**of the wicked**… The phrase is literally, of the wicked one or the
source of the fiery darts.

## Ephesians 6:17 ##

*“And receive the helmet of salvation, and the sword provided by the
Holy Spirit, which is the Word of God.”*

**and take** … The phrase means to receive, (imperative), as an item of
equipment.

**the helmet of salvation** … The **perikephalaia**, literally means
something placed around the head, so, in the military term meaning
helmet.

It is the soul which is said to be saved; and the soul is in the head
with its mentality, volition, self-consciousness, emotion and sin
nature. So it is appropriate the helmet represents salvation.

The Romans had the best helmet of the ancient world. Many other nations
used helmets of cloth wrappings, animal hides or bones, or hooves, etc.
The Roman helmet had chinstrap, visor, and came down to cover the back
and sides of the neck. Officers’ helmets had a ridge on top on which was
mounted plumage or some sort of brush, depending on the rank.

The parts of the Roman helmet were: a lining of leather, softened for
comfort and good fit; the helmet itself which was a bronze casque for
the soldier, or iron alloy for officers; a metal crest for the plume;
and a chinstrap. The highest ranking officers had gold and silver alloy
helmets for parade dress.

The helmet represents many principles of doctrine associated with
salvation.

Request Topic: Salvation Doctrines

**and the sword of the Spirit** … The **machaira** was mentioned before.
The word**machaira** was chosen here, and in Heb. 4:12, by the Holy
Spirit during inspiration.

There were many types of swords used in the ancient world:

The **romphaia** was a broadsword used mostly by the Gauls of Julius
Caesar’s time. It was used with both hands, was six to eight feet long,
sometimes with one edge, sometimes two, and used to hack off limbs and
heads. The barbarian soldiers made great slicing sweeps with the
broadsword, leaving himself open for thrusts of the **machaira**.

The Persians used the **zephos**, a thrusting weapon with a point,
rounded like a pencil, but with no cutting edge.

In the **akinakes** sword, the emphasis was on the handle and the ornate
decoration. It was actually a dress sword and was not considered a
serious combat weapon. The **dolon** was a sword hidden in a cane or
riding crop and used mostly by assassins.

The **machaira** is described by Vegetius in his Military Instructions
to the Romans. “They likewise taught not to cut, but to thrust, with the
sword. For the Romans not only made jest of those who fought with the
edge of a weapon, but always found them an easy conquest. A stroke with
the edge, though made with ever so much force, seldom kills, as the
vital parts of the body are defended both by bones and armor. On the
contrary, a stab, although it penetrates only a few inches, is usually
fatal. Besides, in the attitude of striking with the broadsword, it is
impossible to avoid exposing the right arm and side. On the other hand,
the body is covered when a thrust is given and the enemy receives the
point before he sees the sword.”

The user of the **machaira** is always covered, always protected, always
on balance, and always ready for defense or attack.

**of the Spirit, the Word of God**…The sword source is the Holy Spirit,
namely, the word of God.

Maturity and the ability to do God’s work comes through years of study
of God’s word and practice in using doctrinal principles. Following is a
review of the doctrinal ideas found in:

**2 Timothy 2:15.**

**Study** … is from the Greek word **spoudzo** meaning to be
industrious, eager, to be diligent, to exert oneself. It has a stronger
meaning than study. It is actually a way of life which includes the
proper mental attitude and motivation to learn Bible doctrine daily.
This word could be translated make every effort and it is a command.

**to show yourself** or, “to make every effort to represent yourself…”.
It means to make every effort to concentrate, to be objective to
doctrine. to give priority to the word of God. The reason that you are
entering the Lord’s work is to live the life of Christ.

**approved** … “to pass an exam”. The emphasis is on success, not
failure. To be a successful Christian worker, you must study (Test \#1),
and you must use what you study (Test \#2).

Can you teach to the glory of God? The test is on the accuracy of what
you teach. Can you work to the glory of God? The test comes when you
apply, whether you use grace or legalism, whether you depend upon man or
God. Can you fix a car, iron a shirt, type a letter to the glory of God?
The test is on whether you know how to do this.

**workman** … E**rgateis**, is an agricultural worker, a laborer, a
routine worker. This word indicates one who is involved in the mundane,
routine, ordinary, distasteful, or dull things in life. In the ancient
world it meant feeding the cattle, working in the fields, cleaning out
the barn, etc.

Any task can be done as unto the Lord; the Christian life is fantastic.
The emphasis here is on doing small, routine things as unto the Lord.
Stay in fellowship and wait for God’s promotion.

**needeth not to be ashamed** … The phrase means literally, with the
previous word, a not ashamed workman. You do not have to be ashamed of
your station in life if you have an honest vocation. Every believer is
in full time service. A Christian worker must keep grace oriented and
not despise the ordinary things, or those who live an ordinary life. And
he must have these qualities before moving out.

**rightly dividing with the word of truth** … “to cut straight, to line
out a straight path.” Use Bible doctrine to keep from straying into the
cults, into the movements, to stay with accurate interpretation and
application of the word of God. This enables a life with no detours, no
hangups and no blind alleys.

