---
title: "Assyria"
pdf: "assyria.pdf"
description: "Capsule history of the Assyrian Empire."
template: topic.jade
---


**Assyria 3**

**Assyria**

Assyria was a country located east of the Tigris River; the capital was
Ashur also spelled as Assur, Asshur or Ashshur, from which the entire
country derived its name. The Assyrian Empire encompassed a large mass
of land. The Assyrians were an ethnic blending of Hurrians, Sumerians
and Semites. The Assyrian culture fused elements of the Babylonians, the
Hittites and the Hurrians.

From approximately 1950 B.C. to 1850 B.C. Assyria was ruled by the
Babylonians. Then in circa 1800 B.C., the area came under Amorite rule,
then successively under the hegemony of the Hittites, the Egyptians and
the Hurrians. However, Assyria proper began to assert and consolidate
itself in 1380 B.C., and in 1280 B.C. Shalmaneser I established his
capital at Calah (Kalhu), a few miles south of Nineveh. Shortly
thereafter a period of weakness took place, but Assyria eventually
regained military and political preeminence under Ashurdan I, circa 1150
B.C. During the reign of Tiglathpileser I, circa 1110 B.C., Assyria
attained greatness through foreign conquests and internal reforms; and
under Tiglathpileser I the capital city was once more Ashur.

For the next two centuries, from 1100 to 900 B.C., the nation of Assyria
faded almost to extinction; and it was during this decline that David
and Solomon ascended. Around 900 B.C. Assyria again began to revive
itself. Tulkulti-Ninurta II, then Ashurnasirpal (who was cruel beyond
imagining), then Shalmaneser III, each in succession made Assyrian
larger and stronger. The latter king, Shalmaneser III, was the first
Assyrian to come in contact with Israel as a nation. Shalmaneser III
forcefully impacted history: He invaded Urartu (present day Armenia),
captured Carchemish and in 853 B.C. fought the battle of Karkar, where
he encountered the axis of Benhadad of Damascus, his allies, and Ahab,
king of Samaria. Ten years later Shalmaneser III received tribute
payments from both Tyre and Sidon and king Jehu of Samaria.
Shalmaneser’s son, Shamshiadad V married Semiramis, who ruled so
successfully as regent for her son Adadnirari III. Finally, in 782 B.C.,
Assyria once more suffered reversals.

Then, in 746 B.C., after the ministry of Jonah, Pul or Tiglathpileser
III came to the throne and the period of the second empire began. Pul
was followed by Shalmaneser V, Sargon II, Sennacherib, Esarhaddon and
Ashurbanipal. The last ruler of Assyria was Shinsharishkun; he died when
Nabopolassar, king of Babylonia, and Cyaxeres, king of the Medes,
destroyed Nineveh in 612 B.C. After 605 B.C., the Assyrian Empire ceased
to exist.

**The followingby R. B. Thieme, Jr., Pastor Emeritus, Berachah Church,
Houston, Texas**

**Historical Panorama of Assyria, Ezekiel 31:3-14**

The Assyrians prospered because of positive volition to Bible doctrine.
They became great because they responded to Jonah’s doctrinal teaching.
The greatness of a nation always lies in its spiritual factor.

Other nations were blessed by association with Assyria. The pivot of
mature believers in a nation is the origin of blessing by association.

The person providing the blessing is greater than the person receiving
the blessing. The provider of the blessing has the authority; the
receiver of the blessing has the response. When the blessing receiver
revolts and gets discipline instead of blessing by association.

In this passage, boughs represent economic prosperity; branches
represent military strength. Birds represent unbelievers and evil. When
Bible doctrine is no longer believed in a nation, the birds come in to
nest and take over. An empire is a nation whose greatness is so great
that all the nations of that continent are blessed by association with
it.

The ministry of Jonah was phenomenal in Assyria, Luke 11:29-30, 32.

Jonah’s teaching gave new power to a declining Assyria and resulted in a
new empire.

The pivot was so great and the spinoff of reversionists so low in
succeeding generations that Jonah’s ministry added 142 years to the life
of Assyria.

As the spinoff grew and evil became the thinking of the people, the
nation was destroyed by the fifth cycle of discipline in 612 B.C.

Greatness in a nation is related to the spiritual heritage of Bible
doctrine. But if one generation forgets the importance of Bible
doctrine, then the nation begins to go down in disaster. The Assyrians’
prosperity caught up with them and they forgot the source of their
blessing.

**Warnings of the Fall of Assyria**

The warning to Assyria was given in capsule prophecies, Isaiah 33:1.

Treachery is the result of loss of honor and integrity, Zephaniah 2:13.

The arrogance of the scourge, Assyria, is documented in Isaiah 10:5-8.
God used Assyria as His whip against Israel. Because of this, Assyria
became arrogant. They failed to realize that God had only used them, not
replaced Israel as His client nation.

All nations fall because of a decision of the supreme court of heaven,
Nahum 1:1-3, 9. Nahum was a Jewish prophet taken prisoner by Assyria.

The plundering of the destroyed nation is taught in Nahum 2:8-10. No
military means no protection.

**The Historical Account of the Fall of Nineveh**

Background

In B.C. 626, Ashurbanipal died after ruling Assyria from 669-626 B.C. He
was succeeded by his son Sinsariskun, the last Assyrian king, 626-612
B.C. His ascension was followed by revolts. In 625 B.C., Nabopolassar of
the Chaldeans captured Babylon.

In 616 B.C., all of Babylonia was under the control of Nabopolassar. Now
he was ready to move north.

In 615 B.C., Cyaxares the Mede also attacked from the east.

In 614 B.C., Cyaxares and Nabopolassar arrived at the same time to fight
Assyria. They did not trust each other. So Nebuchadnezzar, the son of
Nabopolassar, married the daughter of Cyaxares.

In 613 B.C., Sinsariskun went to the Scythians for help. They were to
attack the Medes.

In 612 B.C., Cyaxares met with the Scythian princes and persuaded them
to double cross the Assyrians. The Scythians betrayed their alliance and
this sealed the Assyrian’s doom.

The Fall of Assyria

The armies of all three nations assembled at Nineveh in June of 612 B.C.
From the south came the Chaldeans, from the east came the Medes, and
from the north came the Scythians.

Hardcore Assyrians defeated the Scythians, then the Medes, and they
fought the Chaldeans last.

The main or fourth attack came from the northeast. The hard core
fighting men were on the south side of the city. The weak fighters in
the north ran in fear, Nahum 2:8.

Sinsariskun burned everything he owned. One hard core group fought their
way out of the city and fled to Harran.

The Remnant of Assyria

In 610 B.C., the combined armies marched on Harran. The Assyrians who
fought were not defeated, but Harran was plundered.

In 609 B.C., Assuruballit, the general of the hard-core Assyrians,
formed an alliance with Egypt through Pharaoh Neco. He fought Josiah,
king of Judah, at Armageddon and defeated Israel, killing Josiah.

In 605 B.C., Neco fought the Chaldeans at Carchemish. This battle was
one of the greatest in history. Neco was defeated by Nebuchadnezzar.
This is when Nebuchadnezzar first saw Jerusalem.

The Assyrians disappear from history.

The Medes took most of the prisoners. The Scythians took most of the
plunder. Most of the Persian art was Assyrian. A remnant of Assyrians
still exist around Syria and Harran. Some Assyrians stayed with the
Egyptian army.

The sons of Sennacherib went to Armenia and were the source of Armenian
nobility. Some live in southern Russia, Turkey and Iran today.

The wealth and treasures of Assyria

Two thousand years of wealth was divided between three nations without
any argument. No treasury was greater than this one.

Assyrian craftsmen produced the art of the Persians.

In 437 A.D., the vandals plundered Rome and took the greatest treasury
in history back to Carthage. A storm sunk the treasure fleet in the
Mediterranean.

**The Biblical Account of the Fall of Nineveh**

Nahum 2:13 The elite infantry forces were destroyed.

Nahum 3:1-19 The Assyrians fell because the men of the army were women
in their souls. The great leadership was gone.

