---
title: "Caesarea Philippi"
pdf: "caesareaphilippi.pdf"
description: "Caesarea Philippi was located at the foot of Mt. Hermon ... one of the most beautiful localities in all the Holy Land."
template: topic.jade
---


**Caesarea - Judea**

Caesarea Philippi

from the Thompson Chain Reference Bible

Caesarea Philippi was located at the foot of Mount Hermon, where, as a
dashing sparkling stream, the most eastern source of the Jordan River
rushes out from a cave at the base of a great cliff and sings its way on
to join other sources of the famous river. Being well watered, the place
has such a variety of trees, vines, and flowering shrubs as to make it
one of the most beautiful localities in all the Holy Land.

In Old Testament times it had a shrine dedicated to Baal; while later
the Greeks built a shrine to Pan, the god of nature, and called the
place Paneas (the city of Pan).

In 20 BC Herod the Great built a white marble temple here, and dedicated
it to Augustus Caesar. At Herod’s death the city fell to his son, Herod
Philip, who enlarged and beautified the place and named it Caesarea
Philippi, in order to gain the favor of his emperor, Tiberius Caesar,
and to distinguish it from the better-known and capital and seaport of
Caesarea on the coast.

It was to this area of natural beauty that Jesus took his disciples for
a brief period of rest and devotion, when, after a siege of prayer he
asked them, “Whom say ye that I am?”, and Simon Peter made the great
declaration, “Thou art the Christ the Son of the Living God” (Matt.
16:16; Mark 9:18).

In medieval times (1120 AD) the Crusaders built a castle here on a
mountain spur some 1150 feet above the gushing fountain, and called it
the “Castle of Subeibeh.”

Today, masses of building stone, pieces of broken columns, and
half-buried arches are strewn over the site of the city. On the face of
the great cliff about the grotto, from which emerges the stream, there
are several niches, an a Greek inscription to the effect that “Pan and
his Nymphs haunt this place.” Another inscription speaks of the “Priest
of the god Pan.”

High on the mountain, overlooking Caesarea Philippi, stands the Castle
of Subeibeh surrounded by walls ten feet thick, one hundred feet high,
and strengthened by numerous round towers. The interior of the old
fortress is an uneven area of four or five acres, dotted here and there
by houses, cisterns, huge walls, and wide courtyards. The castle is old
and worn by time and the elements, but is better preserved than many
other castles of this area.

