---
title: "Caesarea Palestine"
pdf: "caesareapalestine.pdf"
description: "Caesarea, the Roman capital of Judea in the time of Christ and Paul, was located by the sea, thirty-two miles north of Joppa, and some sixty miles northwest of Jerusalem."
tableofcontents: true
template: topic.jade
---

from the Thompson Chain Reference Bible

Caesarea, the Roman capital of Judea in the time of Christ and Paul, was
located by the sea, thirty-two miles north of Joppa, and some sixty
miles northwest of Jerusalem. Herod the Great began to build the city in
25 BC, and completed it in 13 BC. At the dedication on 12 BC, he named
it Caesarea, in honor of Caesar Augustus, and made it the Roman capital
of Judea.

It soon became a busy seaport and a great commercial center. It was one
of the most attractive cities of its day. It was constructed so well,
and on such a magnificent plan, that it was frequently called “Little
Rome.” Here lived Philip the Evangelist, and here Paul was imprisoned
for two years, during which time he appeared before Felix, Festus, and
King Agrippa.

The city stood, with varying fortunes, until 1256 AD, when Sultan Bibars
of Egypt captured the city and destroyed its walls and most of its
buildings. During succeeding centuries it lay in ruins, with only broken
pottery, portions of gates and castles, and fragments of granite and
marble columns protruding from the sands and lying half-submerged in the
shallow waters of the nearby sea.

The Department of Antiquity of the Government of Israel has undertaken
the excavation of Caesarea. Their larger finds, thus far, have included
a very splendid Crusader castle, the theater, the amphitheater, the
hippodrome, and the pavement of a Jewish synagogue, possibly the very
one, or the successor of the one, in which Cornelius once worshipped,
and which Philip, Peter, and Paul visited. In the theater they found an
inscribed stone which bore the names of Pilate and Tiberius. This was
the first time Pilate’s name has been found on a stone inscription. A
large temple dedicated to Caesar of Rome was uncovered, which contained
an unusually large statue of the emperor.

In 1960 the Link Expedition to Israel explored and charted the extensive
harbor built by Herod the Great. Only the tops of the elaborate stone
breakwater protruded here and there above the waters, but undersea
explorations went far in confirming Josephus’ description of Caesarea’s
massive and extensive harbor.

---

From the [Encyclopedia Britannica] (http://www.britannica.com)

##### Caesarea

Hebrew HORBAT QESARI (“Ruins of Caesarea”), ancient port and
administrative city of Palestine, on the Mediterranean coast of
present-day Israel south of Haifa. It is often referred to as Caesarea
Palaestinae, or Caesarea Maritima, to distinguish it from Caesarea
Philippi near the headwaters of the Jordan River. Originally an ancient
Phoenician settlement known as Straton’s (Strato’s) Tower, it was
rebuilt and enlarged in 22-10 BC by Herod the Great, king of Judaea
under the Romans, and renamed for his patron, the emperor Caesar
Augustus. It served as a port for Herod’s newly built city at Sebaste
(Greek: Augusta), the ancient Samaria of central Palestine. Caesarea had
an artificial harbor of large concrete blocks and typical
Hellenistic-Roman public buildings. An aqueduct brought water from
springs located almost 10 miles (16 km) to the northeast. Caesarea
served as a base for the Herodian navy, which operated in aid of the
Romans as far as the Black Sea.

The city became the capital of the Roman province of Judaea in AD 6.
Subsequently, it was an important centre of early Christianity; in the
New Testament it is mentioned in Acts in connection with Peter, Philip
the Apostle, and, especially, Paul, who was imprisoned there before
being sent to Rome for trial. According to the 1st-century AD historian
Flavius Josephus, the Jewish revolt against Rome, which culminated in
the destruction of Jerusalem and the Temple in AD 70, was touched off by
an incident at Caesarea in AD 66. During the Bar Kokhba revolt of AD
132-135, the Romans tortured and killed the 10 greatest leaders and
sages of Palestinian Jewry, including Rabbi Akiba. Caesarea was almost
certainly the place of execution of Rabbi Akiba and the others according
to tradition (c. AD 135). The death of these Ten Martyrs is still
commemorated in the liturgy for Yom Kippur (the Day of Atonement).

After this Caesarea became the capital of the province renamed
Syria-Palaestina by the emperor Hadrian. Under the Byzantine Empire it
was capital of the province of Palaestina Prima. The church historian
and biblical topographer Eusebius (c. 260/264-c. 340) served as bishop
of Caesarea. The city declined under later Byzantine and Arab rule. Its
port and part of the ancient citadel were rebuilt by the crusaders; the
city was successively taken and retaken by Muslim and crusader forces,
until finally it was captured and razed by the Mamluk Sultan Baybars I
in 1265. Between 1884 and 1948 Bosnian Muslims had a settlement there.
In 1940 the fishing kibbutz of Sedot Yam was founded just south of the
ancient site; this settlement has built a jetty over the Roman and
crusader breakwater. It also engages in agriculture and operates a
resort hotel.

Excavations undertaken since 1950 have uncovered a Roman temple,
amphitheater, hippodrome (which seated 20,000), the aqueduct, and other
ruins of Roman and later times. Of particular interest is a Roman
inscription, found in 1961, which mentions Pontius Pilate, Roman
procurator of Judaea at the time of Jesus’ crucifixion. This is the
first mention of Pilate ever found that can be accurately dated within
his lifetime.

Further excavations in the 1970s and ’80s, both on land and underwater,
gave a clearer picture of the artificial harbor built by Herod the
Great. It was probably the first harbor ever constructed entirely in the
open sea (i.e., without the benefit of any protective fringing bay or
peninsula) and was protected from the sea primarily by two huge
breakwaters built of concrete blocks and filled with stone rubble. This
spacious harbor, which Josephus compared favorably with that of Athens
at Piraeus, was one of the technological marvels of the ancient world
and helped make Caesarea a major port for trade between the Roman Empire
and Asia.

