---
title: "Chaldea"
pdf: "chaldea.pdf"
description: "the history of the ancient kingdom where Abraham was born and which later was the locale of the Babylonian empire."
template: topic.jade
---


**Chaldea 6**

**Chaldea**

**Chaldea** is the land bordering the Persian Gulf that gave its name to
the ruling dynasty and thus became a synonym for Babylonia itself.

I. Geography
------------

The tribal territory covering the southern marshes and coastal plains of
ancient Iraq bordering the Persian Gulf was called by outsiders
“Chaldean land” after the name of the tribes inhabiting the area. This
Assyrian-Babylonian name was followed by the Greek, while the Hebrew
probably follows an old dialect form. The name has no proven connection
with Chesed (Gen. 22:22).

The origin of the Chaldeans is uncertain but may well be in the west, or
else branches of the family may have moved there (cf. Job 1:17). The
general name for the area in the earliest period is unknown, since it
was part of Sumer (see SHINAR); so it cannot be argued that the
qualification of Abraham’s home city UR as “of the Chaldeans” (Gen.
11:28, 31; 15:7; as later Neh. 9:7; cf. Acts 7:4) is necessarily a later
insertion in the text. Such a description may well have been needed to
distinguish the city from other places with a similar name, Ur\`. In the
2nd millennium the area was designated “the Sea-Lands” and was described
as adjacent to Elam on the east, the “west land” (Amorite or western
desert) to the west, and Dilmun, the islands and coastal regions of
Bahrain, to the south. First-millennium texts name the tribes of the
Kaldu under chiefs. Assyrian kings claimed the capture of at least
seventy-five walled towns or villages and 420 hamlets from these tribes.

II. Early References
--------------------

The later rulers of the 1st Dynasty of Babylon (ca 1740-1590 B.C.)
referred to the “Sea-Land” as ruled by independent chiefs, of whom
Gulkišar was the most renowned, Another, Ea-gamil, was the contemporary
of Samsu-ditana of Babylon (1625–1595), while the later Babylonian king
list A records a second Sea-Land dynasty of three kings who reigned over
most of Babylonia for twenty years and three months, ca 1010-980 B.C. It
is likely that these were “Chaldeans,” though not so named in these
texts, since Ashurnasirpal II in his annals for the year 860 mentions
the Kaldu as strong in this same area.

III. Assyrian Control
---------------------

The expansionist aims of the Sargonid Assyrian kings brought them into
direct clash with the independent tribes of the south in their need to
control the trade routes to Elam and the Gulf. Shalmaneser III in 851
sacked the town of Baqani, which then belonged to Adini of the Dakkuru
tribe. When his capital Enzudi fell Adini paid the Assyrian tribute, as
did Mušallim-Marduk of Amukkani and BIt-Yakin; the latter is called “of
the land of the Sea,” thus identifying the earlier description of
“Sea-Lands” with the now more frequently used “land of the Chaldeans.”
Adadnirari III (805) lists the Amukkani and BIt-Yakin among his Chaldean
vassals.

IV. Merodach-baladan
--------------------

In 734 the Amukkani seized Babylon, on the death of Nabunaṣir.
Tiglath-pileser III immediately responded by sending his Assyrian army,
who plundered Amukkani, Šilani, and Sa’alli while the Chaldean chief
UkIn-zer was engaged at Sapia. His rivals Balassu of Dakkuru and
Marduk-apla-iddina (the biblical Merodach-baladan) of BIt-Yakin made a
treaty with the Assyrians, and their lands were spared, Merodach-baladan
even dominated Babylon itself from 721 to 710 B.C.

Sargon II of Assyria set out to win over the Li’tau and various Aramean
groups. He sealed the border with Elam from which the rebels were
supplied, eventually regaining control of Babylon. Marduk-apla-iddina II
withdrew to Yatburu in Elam; and though the Assyrians captured
Dur-Yakin, his main city, he retained the chieftainship. However, on
Sargon’s death in 705 Merodach-baladan took the title “king of Babylon”
(so 2 K. 20:12) following the disappearance of the little-known
Marduk-zakir-šumi II. It is probably at this time, rather than at the
earlier rule in Babylon, that Merodach-baladan sent his embassy to
Hezekiah of Judah to enlist his support against the expected Assyrian
countermeasures (Isa. 39; 2 K. 20:12–19). Thus here too, “Chaldean” is
rightly used as synonymous with “Babylonian” (Isa. 13:19; 47:1, 5;
48:14, 20).

For a while another Chaldean, Šuzubu (Mušezib-Marduk), gained power when
Merodach-baladan withdrew on the approach of Sennacherib’s army.
Sennacherib, who defeated the Chaldean tribesmen at Kish, gave Babylon
into the hands of his nominee Bel-ibni. Resistance continued for a time
under a son of Merodach-baladan, who was betrayed by the Elamites.
Merodach-baladan himself died in exile before Sennacherib in 695 could
mount an amphibious operation to punish the supporting elements living
across the gulf. When Ashurbanipal raided the south ca 652 B.C. he
captured Merodach-baladan’s grandson Palia. This act forced the Chaldean
tribes to side with Šamaš-šum-ukIn of Babylon, and their combined
hostility was the prime cause of the sack of that city by the Assyrians
in 648. Mannu-kI-Babili of the Dakkuri and Ea-šum-iqIša of the Amukkani
were punished for their complicity, and Nabû-bel-šumati, another
grandson of the renowned chief of the BIt-Yakin, committed suicide when
betrayed by the Elamites to whom he, like his grandfather
Merodach-baladan, had fled.

V. Chaldean Dynasty
-------------------

After Ashurbanipal’s death and the increasing weakness of his regime the
Chaldeans rose in revolt and recaptured Babylon, putting their leader
Nabopolassar on the throne there in 627. He inaugurated a period of
remarkable political and economic recovery, allying with the Medes to
sack Asshur (614) and Nineveh (612). His son Nebuchadrezzar II
(605–562), while crown prince, confronted the Egyptians, defeating them
at Carchemish in 605 B.C. before campaigning in Syria and Palestine (2
K. 24:7; Josephus Ant. x.6.86). The Babylonian Chronicle for this reign
records his operations resulting in Jehoiakim’s submission to the
Chaldean king (2 K. 24:1; Jer. 25:1) and his defection three years later
when the Chaldeans had been routed by the Egyptians in 601 (Jer.
26:1–11), In revenge the Babylonians captured Jerusalem, March 16, 597
B.C.; and when their nominee Mattaniah-Zedekiah broke his vassal’s oath,
they sacked the city and took the Judeans into exile (587).

Nebuchadrezzar much embellished Babylon and strengthened its defenses
(Dnl. 4:30). His son Amel-Marduk (Evil-merodach of 2 K. 25:27–30) showed
compassion on the exiled Jews, but under his successors Neriglissar
(560–558) and Labaši-Marduk (557), their lot deteriorated with the
mounting pressure on Babylon by the powerful Medes. Nabonidus (556–539)
set up a provincial administration in the Jewish diaspora area of Teima
in north Arabia, leaving his son and co-regent Bel-šar-uṣur (Belshazzar,
“king of the Chaldeans,” Dnl. 5:30) to withstand the final assault of
the Persians under Cyrus in October 539. Nabonidus himself died in
exile, and with the fall of Babylon the Chaldean Dynasty ended.

VI. Chaldeans as Learned Men
----------------------------

The Chaldeans maintained the traditional Babylonian schools at Babylon,
Borsippa, Sippar, Uruk, and Ur. Here the “learning of the Chaldeans”
(Dnl. 1:4; 2:2; 4:7; 5:7, 11) comprised the study of Sumerian, Akkadian,
Aramaic (formerly called “Chaldee”), and other languages, as well as the
extensive literature written in them. Historiography as well as the
sciences of astronomy, mathematics, and medicine formed a large part of
the specialist work. Associated religious texts, both omina and
astrology (horoscopes were not introduced until the 4th cent B.C.)
played a large part.

In one sense Daniel uses “Chaldean” as a synonym for “Babylonian” as
elsewhere is the case in the OT. With the increasing introduction of
Aramaic, “Chaldean” became a term for “magicians, enchanters, and
soothsayers,” since these aspects of Babylonian religious texts were the
longest to survive in the popular imagination (as ca 450 B.C. Herodotus
i.181–83).

Ur of the Chaldees
==================

I. Site
-------

Some 350 km (220 mi) SE of Baghdad, covering an oval area approximately
910 by 730 m (1000 by 800 yds), are the ruins of ancient Ur, known in
antiquity as Urim. The major mound was called Tell el-Muqayyar (“mound
of pitch”) by the Arabs because of the bitumen used here and there as
mortar for the bricks. Other sites have been suggested as the location
of the biblical “Ur of the Chaldeans” (AV “Ur of the Chaldees”) but the
present site is accepted by almost all scholars, especially because of
its association with the southern Babylonian Chaldeans.

The chief deity of the city was Nanna, the Sumerian moon-god; for him
and his consort Nin-gal several temples and the great ziggurat were
built. It is noteworthy that at Haran, Abraham’s ancestral home, the
Semitic moon-god Sin was the chief deity worshiped.

Today, and for centuries past, the area of Ur has presented a most
unprepossessing aspect. From the top of the ziggurat one looks out in
every direction upon a flat barren plain virtually devoid of plant life
or human habitation. But four thousand years ago, when the city and its
environs encompassed about 10 sq km (4 sq mi) and had a population of
300,000 to 400,000, the vast plain must have been a patchwork of
irrigated fields, orchards, and gardens.

Twice in its history, during its 1st and 3rd dynasties, Ur was “capital
of the world.” Doubtless the end came when the Euphrates, which
originally flowed along the western side of the city in a bed several
feet above the level of the plain, broke through its banks and
ultimately assumed its present course 19 km (12 mi) to the east. If this
catastrophe occurred during the declining years of Ur’s history, when
the inhabitants of the city were either too poor or too weak to remedy
the situation, oblivion would have been swift and sure.

Earlier excavations were carried out at Ur and nearby Tell el-Ubaid by
J. E. Taylor (1854), H. R. Hall (1918–19), and R. Campbell Thompson
(1918); their finds were minor but provided evidence of the importance
of the ruins. A joint expedition of the British Museum and the
University Museum of the University of Pennsylvania, under the direction
of C. L. Woolley, excavated at Ur for twelve seasons between 1922 and
1934. In addition to the ziggurat and royal tombs (see III and IV
below), the excavators recovered the palaces of Ur-Nammu and Šulgi of
the 3rd Dynasty, the palace of the Chaldean king Nabonidus, temples from
various historic periods for Nanna, Ningal, and Enki, and many private
houses from both the Old Babylonian and Neo-Babylonian periods.

II. Prehistory and History
--------------------------

Ur was one of the oldest and most important cities in the Sumerian era
of Mesopotamian history. Its occupation goes back, however, to the
prehistoric Ubaid period. Sedentary occupation in what is now southern
Iraq seems to have begun ca 4000 b.c., when Eridu was first inhabited.
The prehistoric Ubaid culture gradually developed in Eridu and at
several other sites, including Ur. Although no buildings from this
period have been uncovered at Ur, the number and variety of Ubaid
pottery types found there indicate a sizable population. The next
prehistoric periods, Uruk and Jemdet Nasr, are also represented at Ur by
pottery and fragmentary walls.

At the very dawn of recorded history there were three important centers
in the part of Mesopotamia known as Sumer: Kish, Ur, and Uruk (biblical
Erech). From the Early Dynastic I period several hundred archaic
cuneiform tablets have been recovered at Ur.

One document relates that Mes-anne-pada of Ur defeated Agga of Kish and
thus established the 1st Dynasty of Ur ca 2600 b.c. Mes-anne-pada and
his son Mes-kiag-nunna are both mentioned in later chronicles as kings
of this dynasty, and the former name has been found on several seal
impressions at Ur. This Ur dynasty is the first historical dynasty in
Mesopotamian history known from both later chronicles and
contemporaneous archeological materials (see IV below). After about a
century of hegemony, however, the 1st Dynasty of Ur fell to the superior
power of Gilgamesh of Uruk. There followed a long period in Sumerian
history, including a 2nd Dynasty of Ur, for which no names or events
survive.

For an illustrious period of nearly a century the kings (or governors)
of Lagash and Girsu, of whom Gudea is best known, ruled Ur. Gutian
invaders cut this period short, but Utu-hegal of Uruk eventually
repulsed them ca 2120 b.c. A few years later Ur-Nammu of Ur defeated
Utu-hegal to found the 3rd Dynasty of Ur, which lasted until ca 2000
b.c. An able general and administrator, Ur-Nammu conquered Lagash and
extended his power over Nippur, Uruk, Adab, and Larsa. He also built or
rebuilt temples and ziggurats all over Sumer, repaired canals, and
restored Ur’s foreign trade. He is credited with the first known law
code in history. Unfortunately the extant text of this code is brief,
containing only a large part of the prologue and five short paragraphs
of law.

From a broken tablet describing Ur-Nammu’s arrival in the underworld it
appears that he died defending Ur against the Guti. In any event, his
sixteen-year reign was followed by the forty-eight-year reign of his son
Šulgi. Šulgi extended the royal power of Ur over Elam to the east and
even over Asshur to the far north. His queen, an able woman with the
Semitic name of Abisimti, continued as dowager under Šulgi’s successors.
Šulgi, like Ur-Nam-mu undertook many building projects throughout his
realm.

A shell-inlay mosaic set in bitumen on the end of a lyre sound-box.
Celebratory scenes (from top to bottom) show: a bull-man wrestling with
two bulls, a lion and a dog acting as servants, a bear dancing to a lyre
played by a donkey, and a scorpion-man walking in front of a gazelle who
carries two drinking glasses (25th cent b.c., from the king’s grave)
(courtesy of the University Museum, University of Pennsylvania)

Šulgi was succeeded by his two sons Amar-Sin and Šu-Sin, each of whom
reigned for nine years. They both served apprenticeships as governors of
lesser cities during Šulgi’s reign. Both Amar-Sin and Šu-Sin faced
increasing migrations of Amorites, which virtually amounted to invasions
of whole tribes. Abraham’s ancestors probably came to Ur from their
original home in Haran at this time. During the rule of Ibbi-Sin, who
followed Šu-Sin, droves of Elamites joined the Amorites. Although
Ibbi-Sin held on to his throne for twenty-four years, the power of Ur
waned, and the cities that it once controlled were forced one by one to
fend for themselves. With the downfall of the 3rd Dynasty of Ur came the
rise of the Amorite city-states, which soon led to the 1st Dynasty of
Babylon and its illustrious king Hammurabi. His accession marks the end
of Sumerian political control of Mesopotamia.

The 3rd Dynasty of Ur was the most prosperous and most literate of the
Sumerian period, if not of the entire history of Mesopotamia. A century
of relative peace allowed business, agriculture, and the arts to
develop. Ur’s population is conservatively estimated at about 300,000.
Roughly fifteen thousand cuneiform tablets have been published of the
approximately 100,000 excavated from many cities during this period.
They contain information regarding every conceivable aspect of life;
family affairs, government, religion, business, agriculture, medicine,
law procedures, arts and crafts, building, mathematics, and various
types of literature.

Ur was never again a leading city, although the cult of the tutelary
deity, the moon-god Nanna, always retained an important place in the
life of Sumer and later Babylonia. Records indicate building in Ur by
Old Babylonian, Kassite, Assyrian, Chaldean, and even Persian monarchs.
And the city must have had a sizable population down to the time of
Cyrus. The latest dated tablet found there is from the twelfth year of
Alexander the Great. Afterward, and possibly largely because the river
shifted its course, the region disappeared from history.

III. Ziggurat
-------------

The ziggurat of Ur is the best-preserved example in Mesopotamia. The
various levels of the terrace indicate that it had antecedents during
the Uruk and Early Dynastic periods, but they remain buried beneath the
core of the Ur III structure. Ur-Nammu began and Šulgi finished the Ur
III ziggurat (2100 b.c.), which was the prototype of many built at this
time in other major cities controlled by the kings of the 3rd Dynasty of
Ur. A stele celebrating the construction of this ziggurat was restored
from many broken pieces found in the debris at its base. It pictures
Ur-Nammu receiving instructions (or authorization) for the project from
the moon-god Nanna and his consort Nin-gal.

The Ur-Nammu ziggurat apparently consisted of three stages, with a
temple to Nanna on the top. The overall measurements were 62 by 43 by 20
m (203 by 141 by 66 ft). A long central staircase and two long flanking
staircases led to a gatehouse on the first stage. Smaller staircases led
to the temple.

The function of the ziggurat is by no means clearly understood. It was
neither a tomb nor an observatory. The separation between the temple at
the top and that at the base might have represented the distance between
the heavenly and earthly residences of the deity.

IV. Royal Tombs
---------------

Perhaps the best-known discoveries at Ur are the treasures from the
royal and private graves and tombs. Surely they are among the richest
finds in the history of archeology. These burials span the Early
Dynastic and Sargonid periods, including the 1st Dynasty of Ur. A team
found them during the first season in 1922 while searching for the
Nin-Mah Temple. But digging was suspended until 1926, when the workmen
were better trained and more information was available.

By Woolley’s reckoning there were over eighteen hundred private graves
and tombs and sixteen royal tombs, including six “death pits” that
contained mass burials of retainers. Several of the so-called private
tombs, however, rivaled even the royal tombs in the wealth of their
funerary furniture. Three of the royal tombs are identified with
specific persons (Mes-anne-pada, A-kalam-dug, and Šubad [see picture in
Ornament]) by inscribed seals and vessels. Nearly all the royal tombs
were plundered by robbers in antiquity, but the quantity of the
remaining gold and silver vessels, jewelry, and other richly inlaid
furniture testifies both to the skill of the ancient craftsmen and to
the wealth and power of the aristocracy, since excellent techniques of
working stone and metal were employed, and the raw materials were
imported from great distances.

The mass burials of the death pits pose intriguing questions. Some of
them contained chariots and oxen as well as humans, and one contained
seven men and sixty-eight women. At first it was thought that these
burials were related to the celebration of the “sacred marriage” at the
annual New Year Festival. Now, however, they are thought to reflect a
time when the servants of the deceased monarch were put to death and
buried with him so that he would be properly equipped in the next world.
In this respect the burials have parallels in Egypt, where the furniture
was customarily included even in private graves; profuse wall reliefs
and paintings are also common to the tombs of both Ur and Egypt. In
fact, excavations at Saqqârah from the 1st Dynasty of Egypt have shown
sacrificial customs similar to those at Ur.

V. Relationship of Ur to Abraham
--------------------------------

Since the discovery and excavation of Tell el-Muqayyar, particularly by
Sir Leonard Woolley, it has popularly been identified with Ur of the
Chaldees. According to the tradition which Stephen accepted, Abraham was
in Mesopotamia before he lived in Haran (Acts 7:2), further described as
“the land of the Chaldeans” (v 3). In Gen. 12:1 God said to Abram, “Go
from your country and your kindred and your father’s house.” The word
translated “country” is more accurately rendered “land of your birth”
(so RSV in 11:28). This is followed by the statement, “Abram was
seventy-five years old when he departed from Haran” (v 4). Accordingly,
some scholars have held that the call of Abraham, therefore his origin,
was in Harran. Hence the connection with Ur of the Chaldeans is a later
tradition.

But Gen. 11:28 indicates that Haran (or Terah?) was born in Ur of the
Chaldeans, as were Abram and Nahor. Abraham’s wife Sarah came from the
same place, and Abraham and Sarah accompanied Terah and his family from
Ur of the Chaldeans “to go into the land of Canaan,” but they settled at
Harran, possibly because of Terah’s ill-health, which eventuated in his
death (11:31f). The call of Abraham, it would seem, preceded the
decision to leave Ur of the Chaldeans, since the goal was Canaan, not
Harran (cf. Gen. 15:7).

Some scholars (e.g., Gordon) have questioned whether “Ur of the
Chaldeans” was in southern Mesopotamia, since the Sumerian city of Ur,
identified with Tell el-Muqayyar, is never called “Ur of the Chaldeans”
in ancient texts. It is simply “Ur”. Therefore, it is reasoned, “Ur of
the Chaldeans” must have been used to distinguish it from the
better-known Ur in southern Mesopotamia. But if not there, then where? A
Sumerian word uru, written with another logogram, means “city,” and was
used of a number of cities (much as we might say, “I’m going to the
city,” meaning any nearby city not named but understood by the hearer).
“Ur of the Chaldeans” could mean a city occupied by or in the region of
the Chaldeans.

A region in eastern Turkey, in the general vicinity of Lake Van, was
occupied by the Khaldi (or Chaldians; other scholars claim that this was
the name of the deity, not of the people, who are more properly called
Urartians. The route from this region to Canaan by way of Harran would
be reasonable, whereas the most likely route from the Sumerian Ur, it is
claimed, would not go by way of Harran. An older identification of Ur
was Urfa, a city 35 km (20 mi) NW of Harran, but, as has been pointed
out, the linguistic problems in equating Ur with Urfa are formidable. It
should also be noted that Khaldi was an Indo-Aryan deity and the
Urartians were not Semites; Terah and his family were clearly Semites
(Gen. 11:10).

The Kaldu, on the other hand, are well known from antiquity, and while
it is true that the name often refers to the Neo-Babylonian (or
Chaldean) kings, it also can refer to the people of the Sea-Land at
least as early as the 10th cent b.c. Ashurnasirpal II (883–859 b.c.)
placed the Kaldu S of Babylonia (ARAB, I, § 470), and Shalmaneser III
spoke of the sea of Kaldu, “which they call Bitter Sea,” i.e., the
Persian Gulf (ARAB, I § 641).

Thus the biblical evidence strongly favors the location of Ur of the
Chaldeans in a region such as Sumerian Ur, although to claim that this
identification is certain would be going beyond the evidence.

Geoffrey W. Bromiley, The International Standard Bible Encyclopedia,
(electronic edition.; Grand Rapids: Wm. B. Eerdmans, 2001, c1979-1988).

===============================

