---
title: Christians Early Church
template: lesson.jade
---


**Inspiration 2**

**Christians of the Early Church**

This is a description of the Christians of the early church, as found in
a letter called the “Epistle to Diognetus”, by an unknown author of the
2nd Century.

"The Christians are not distinguished from other men by country, by
language, nor by civil institutions. For they neither dwell in cities by
themselves, nor use a peculiar tongue, nor lead a singular mode of life.
They dwell in the Grecian or barbarian cities, as the case may be; they
follow the usage of the country in dress, food, and the other affairs of
life. Yet they present a wonderful and confessedly paradoxical conduct.
They dwell in their own native lands, but as strangers.

“They take part in all things, as citizens; and they suffer all things,
as foreigners. Every foreign country is a fatherland to them, and every
native land is a foreign. They marry, like all others; they have
children; but they do not cast away their offspring. They have the table
in common, but not wives. They are in the flesh, but do not live after
the flesh. They live upon the earth but are citizens of heaven. They
obey the existing laws, and excel the laws by their lives.

“They love all, and are persecuted by all. They are unknown, and yet
they are condemned. They are killed and are made alive. They are poor
and make many rich. They lack all things, and in all things abound. They
are reproached, and glory in their reproaches. They are calumniated, and
are justified. They are cursed, and they bless. They receive scorn, and
they give honor. They do good, and are punished as evil-doers. When
punished, they rejoice, as being made alive. By the Jews they are
attacked as aliens, and by the Greeks persecuted; and the cause of the
enmity their enemies cannot tell.

“In short, what the soul is in the body, the Christians are in the
world. The soul is diffused through all the members of the body, and the
Christians are spread through the cities of the world. The soul dwells
in the body, but it is not of the body; so the Christians dwell in the
world, but are not of the world. The soul, invisible, keeps watch in the
visible body; so also the Christians are seen to live in the world, but
their piety is invisible.

The flesh hates and wars against the soul, suffering no wrong from it,
but because it resists fleshly pleasures; and the world hates the
Christians with no reason, but that they resist its pleasures. The soul
loves the flesh and members, by which it is hated; so the Christians
love their haters. The soul is enclosed in the body, but holds the body
together; so the Christians are detained in the world as in a prison;
but they contain the world. Immortal, the soul dwells in the mortal
body; so the Christians dwell in the corruptible, but look for
incorruption in heaven. The soul is the better for restriction in food
and drink; and the Christians increase, though daily punished. This lot
God has assigned to the Christians in the world; and it cannot be taken
from them.

For an index of topics, or information about regular Bible studies,
write to:

Warren Doud  
**Grace Notes**  
1705 Aggie Lane  
Austin, Texas 78757  
E-Mail: wdoud@gracenotes.info  
URL: http://www.gracenotes.info

There is no charge for Grace Notes materials. The work is supported by
Christians who pray for the ministry and share in the expenses.

