---
title: "Citizenship of the Believer"
pdf: "citizenship.pdf"
description: "Verses describing the Christian's transfer of citizenship from the world to the heavenly kingdom through union with Christ."
template: lesson.jade
---


**Citizenship of the Believer 2**

Citizenship of the Believer

When a person becomes a Christian he changes his spiritual citizenship.
He is no longer alienated from God. Rather he is a member of God’s royal
family, with all the blessings and privileges of that position. The
following are some of the Bible’s statements regarding our former and
present citizenship.

**We were aliens to the kingdom of God.**

**Eph. 2:12, “**remember that you were at that time separate from
Christ, excluded from the commonwealth of Israel, and strangers to the
covenants of promise, having no hope and without God in the world.”

**We were citizens of the domain of darkness also known as being in
Adam. We walked in darkness.**

**Col. 1:13,** “For He delivered us from the domain of darkness, and
transferred us to the kingdom of His beloved Son,”

**Eph. 5:8,** “for you were formerly darkness, but now you are light in
the Lord; walk as children of light.”

**1 John 1:5-10,** “And this is the message we have heard from Him and
announce to you, that God is light, and in Him there is no darkness at
all.”

“If we say that we have fellowship with Him and yet walk in the
darkness, we lie and do not practice the truth;”

“but if we walk in the light as He Himself is in the light, we have
fellowship with one another, and the blood of Jesus His Son cleanses us
from all sin.”

“If we say that we have no sin, we are deceiving ourselves, and the
truth is not in us.”

“If we confess our sins, He is faithful and righteous to forgive us our
sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness.”

“If we say that we have not sinned, we make Him a liar, and His word is
not in us.”

At salvation, we became citizens of God’s kingdom. Our behavior should
be different from that of citizens of darkness.

**The mechanics of the transfer of citizenship is the baptism of the
Holy Spirit resulting in union with Christ.**

**Col. 3:1-3,** “If then you have been raised up with Christ, keep
seeking the things above, where Christ is, seated at the right hand of
God.”

“Set your mind on the things above, not on the things that are on
earth.”

“For you have died and your life is hidden with Christ in God.”

**1 Cor. 12:13,** “For by one Spirit we were all baptized into one body,
whether Jews or Greeks, whether slaves or free, and we were all made to
drink of one Spirit.”

Therefore, the Christian is a citizen of heaven, not of earth.We live in
a hostile foreign country!

**Phil. 3:20,** “For our citizenship is in heaven, from which also we
eagerly wait for a Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ;”

**John 17:11,** “And I am no more in the world; and yet they themselves
are in the world, and I come to Thee. Holy Father, keep them in Thy
name, the name which Thou hast given Me, that they may be one, even as
we are.”

**John 17:14-17,**“I have given them Thy word; and the world has hated
them, because they are not of the world, even as I am not of the world.”

“I do not ask Thee to take them out of the world, but to keep them from
the evil one.”

“They are not of the world, even as I am not of the world.”

"Sanctify them in the truth; Thy word is truth.**”**

**We are aliens in the domain of darkness, strangers just passing
through.**

**1 Pet. 2:11,** “Beloved, I urge you as aliens and strangers to abstain
from fleshly lusts, which wage war against the soul.”

**A Christian is not to love the things of this world. A believer can
enjoy the creation while not loving Satan’s domain.**

**1 John 2:15-17,** “Do not love the world, nor the things in the world.
If anyone loves the world, the love of the Father is not in him.”

“For all that is in the world, the lust of the flesh and the lust of the
eyes and the boastful pride of life, is not from the Father, but is from
the world.”

“And the world is passing away, and also its lusts; but the one who does
the will of God abides forever.”

**1 Tim. 4:4, 5,** “For everything created by God is good, and nothing
is to be rejected, if it is received with gratitude; for it is
sanctified by means of the word of God and prayer.”

