---
title: "Coos (Cos)"
pdf: "coos(cos).pdf"
description: "Coos is an island mentioned in connection with Paul’s third missionary journey in Acts 21:1, and in its relations with the Jews in 1 Macc. 15:23; Josephus Ant. xiv.7.2; 10.15."
template: topic.jade
---

Coos is an island off the coast of Caria, Asia Minor, one of the
Sporades, under Greek control since 1948.

Coos is mentioned in connection with Paul’s third missionary journey in
Acts 21:1, and in its relations with the Jews in 1 Macc. 15:23; Josephus
Ant. xiv.7.2; 10.15.

Cos is a long, narrow island oriented E-W. About 23 mi (37 km) long, it
has a circumference of 65 mi (105 km) and consists of an area of 111 sq
mi (287 sq km). It is divided into three parts or regions: an abrupt
limestone ridge along the eastern half of the southern coast, a rugged
peninsula at the west end, and along the northern coast a central
lowland of fertile soil which produces an excellent quality of grapes.
The harbor is at the eastern end of the island. Mt. Oromedon, a landmark
for navigators, rises in the middle of the island to a height of 2500 ft
(762 m).

Cos was settled by Greeks as early as the 15th cent b.c. During the 5th
cent the city-state joined the Delian League and suffered considerable
destruction during the Peloponnesian War (431–404). A member of the
Second Athenian Alliance, it revolted successfully against Athens in
354. Coming under the control of Alexander, Cos subsequently oscillated
between Macedon, Syria, and Egypt to find its greatest glory as a
literary center under the protection of the Ptolemies, when it was the
home of such great figures as the poet Philetas. In the 2nd cent Cos was
loyal to Rome even before it became a part of the province of Asia.
Herod the Great was one of the benefactors of the people of Cos.
Claudius, influenced by his Coan physician Xenophon, made Cos a free
city and conferred immunity from taxation upon it in a.d. 53.

One of the most beautiful ports of the ancient world, Cos not doubt was
most famous as a health resort. It was the site of the first school of
scientific medicine and the sanctuary of Asclepius (Aesculapius). The
island had a healthful climate and hot ferrous and sulfurous springs,
which the great Hippocrates (ca 460–377 b.c.), the father of medicine,
first used to cure his patients.

The sanctuary of Asclepius (the god of healing) was excavated by Rudolf
Herzog of Tubingen University, 1898–1907. He uncovered a sanctuary on
three terraces set in a sacred grove of cypresses about 2 mi (3 km) from
the town. The topmost terrace had a Doric temple built of white island
marble, surrounded on three sides by a U-shaped portico with its open
side facing the lower terraces, and dating ca 160 b.c. The middle
terrace dated ca 280 b.c. and supported a great altar faced by a small
temple and other structures. The lowest terrace had a U-shaped portico
with its open side facing the one on the top level. Dated ca 350–250
b.c., this portico contained rooms where the patients slept.

When an earthquake nearly devastated the city of Cos in 1933, the
Italians, who then controlled the island, availed themselves of the
opportunity to excavate the ancient city. They found a planned
Hellenistic town with main cross streets, a stadium, and a surrounding
wall; and they found evidence of occupation at the site as early as
Mycenaean times. At the lower level of the sanctuary the excavators
uncovered Roman baths which utilized the healing waters of the island’s
springs and which (by inscriptions) dated to Nero’s reign — and thus to
the time of Paul’s ministry.

_International Standard Bible Encyclopedia_

