---
title: "Corinth"
pdf: "corinth.pdf"
description: "A brief summary of the history of the Greek city where Paul stayed 18 months."
template: topic.jade
---

**from the Thompson Chain Reference Bible**

Corinth, the proud, wealthy, and wicked city of the ancient world, was
located on the four-mile-wide strip of land which linked the southern
Peloponessus with the mainland of Greece. Being on the North-South
highway, and having the two thriving seaports of Cenchraea on the east
and Lechseum on the west, it was literally “at the meeting of the ways,”
and easily became the greatest commercial center of Greece. About it
were fertile lands on which were grown olives, grapes, dates, and many
other well-known fruits.

As the head of the Achaean League, Corinth was destroyed in 146 BC by
Mummius, the ruffian Roman leader, who sent shiploads of statuary,
paintings, and other art treasures to Rome.

In 46 BC Julius Caesar rebuilt the city, giving it wide streets, market
places, temples, theaters, statues, fountains, and the white and blue
marble Bema, or rostra, where orations were made and judgments rendered.
Southward was the Acrocorinth, a hill that arose five hundred feet above
the city. On this eminence was located the temple and statue of
Aphrodite (Astarte), the goddess of love and fertility, who not only
dominated much of the social and religious life of the city, but whose
worship tended to foster, or even popularize, immorality among both
citizens and travelers.

Paul came to Corinth about 52AD and spent a year and a half, supporting
himself by tent making, while by his preaching and teaching he converted
both Jews and Greeks, and gathered together the church to which he wrote
two immortal epistles.

The city had almost continuous settlement until 1858 when a terrible
earthquake destroyed it. The surviving inhabitants went four miles away
and built new Corinth. The old city lay in ruins, and was gradually
being burried by many feet of soil, until in 1896 the American School of
Classical Studies at Athens took possession of the site and dug twenty
trial trenches in various locations. In trench number three they
uncovered a paved street, over 46 feet in width, with sidewalks and
butters, but with no marks of wheels, which meant that it was for foot
traffic only. The street led north and south, therefore the diggers
followed through, hoping to find the Agora, or market place.

In the various campaigns which followed, the excavators made numerous
small finds, such as sculptured fragments, various vase fragments,
reliefs, certain terra cottas, an angel, a marble lintel of a door on
which was inscribed “Synagogue of the Hebrews,” and a limestone block on
which was a first century inscription saying that Erastus, the
Commissioner or Administrator, had paved this plaza (some sixty feet
square) at his own expense.

Paul writes of one Erastus who was the “Chamberlain” or treasurer of the
City (Romans 16:23), and it could well be that the inscription speaks of
this same man who later became a Christian and a valuable helper of
Paul.

The larger finds consisted of a Greek theater, the temple of Apollo, the
ancient court and fountain of Peirene, the Agora, and the Bema, the
judgment platform where, in all probability, Paul was brought before
Gallio and acquitted. Also the pavement below where the Greeks took
Sosthenes, the chief ruler of the synagogue, and beat him before the
judgment seat, Acts 18:17 saying “And Gallio cared for none of those
things.”

In passing along the paved road leading out through the western gateway
of Corinth, this writer was confident that he was treading where Paul
had walked, for he undoubtedly went this way many times during his
18-month stay in Corinth.

