---
title: "The Roads from Jerusalem to Damascus"
indexTitle: "Damascus, Roads to"
pdf: "damascusroads.pdf"
description: "description of the various roads which Saul could have used to travel between Jerusalem and Damascus."
template: topic.jade
---

from “The Life and Epistles of St. Paul” by Conybeare and Howson.

No journey was ever taken on which so much interest is concentrated as
this of St. Paul from Jerusalem to Damascus. It is so critical a passage
in the history of God’s dealings with man, and we feel it to be so
closely bound up with all our best knowledge and best happiness in this
life, and with all our hopes for the world to come, that the mind is
delighted to dwell upon it, and we are eager to learn or imagine all its
details. The conversion of Saul was like the call of a second Abraham.

But we know almost more of the Patriarch’s journey through this same
district, from the north to the south, than we do of the Apostle’s in
the opposite direction. It is easy to conceive of Abraham traveling with
his flocks and herds and camels. The primitive features of the East
continue still unaltered in the desert, and the Arabian sheik still
remains to us a living picture of the patriarch of Genesis. But before
the first century of the Christian era, the patriarchal life in
Palestine had been modified, not only by the invasions and settlements
of Babylonia and Persia, but by large influxes of Greek and Roman
civilization. It is difficult to guess what was the appearance of Saul’s
company on that memorable occasion. We neither know how he traveled nor
who his associates were, nor where he rested on his way nor what road he
followed from the Judean to the Syrian capital.

His journey must have brought him somewhere into the vicinity of the Sea
of Tiberias. But where he approached the nearest to the shores of this
sacred lake, whether he crossed the Jordan where, in its lower courses,
it flows southwards to the Dead Sea, or where its upper windings enrich
the valley at the base of Mount Hermon, we do not know. And there is one
thought which makes us glad that it should be so. It is remarkable that
Galilee, where Jesus worked so many of His miracles, is the scene of
none of those transactions which are related in the Acts. The blue
waters of Tiberias, with their fishing boats and towns on the brink of
the shore, are consecrated in the Gospels. A greater than Paul was here.
When we come to the travels of the Apostles, the scenery is no longer
limited and Jewish, but catholic and widely extended, like the Gospel
which they preached; and the Sea, which will be so often spread before
us in the life of St. Paul, is not the little Lake of Gennesareth, but
the great Mediterranean, which washed the shores and carried the ships
of the historical nations of antiquity.

Two principal roads can be mentioned, one of which probably conducted
the travelers from Jerusalem to Damascus. The track of the caravans, in
ancient and modern times, from Egypt to the Syrian capital, has always
led through Gaza and Ramleh, and then, turning eastwards about the
borders of Galilee and Samaria, has descended near Mount Tabor towards
the Sea of Tiberias; and so, crossing the Jordan a little to the north
of the Lake by Jacob’s Bridge, proceeds through the desert country which
stretches to the base of Antilibanus. A similar track from Jerusalem
falls into this Egyptian road in the neighborhood of Djenin, at the
entrance of Galilee; and Saul and his company may have traveled by this
route, performing the journey of one hundred and thirty-six miles, like
the modern caravans, in about six days.

But at this period, that great work of Roman road making, which was
actively going on in all parts of the empire, must have extended, in
some degree, to Syria and Judea; and, if the Roman roads were already
constructed here, there is little doubt that they followed the direction
indicated by the later itineraries. This direction is from Jerusalem to
Neapolis (the ancient Shechem), and thence over the Jordan to the south
of the Lake, near Scythopolis, where the soldiers of Pompey crossed the
river, and where the Galilean pilgrims used to cross it, at the time of
the festivals, to avoid Samaria. From Scythopolis it led to Gadara, a
Roman city, the ruins of which are still remaining, and so to Damascus.

Whatever road was followed in Saul’s journey to Damascus, it is almost
certain that the earlier portion of it brought him to Neapolis, the
Shechem of the Old Testament, and the Nablus of the modern Samaritans.
This city was one of the stages in the Itineraries. Dr. Robinson
followed a Roman pavement for some considerable distance in the
neighborhood of Bethel. This northern road went over the elevated ridges
which intervene between the valley of the Jordan and the plain on the
Mediterranean coast. As the travelers gained the high ground, the young
Pharisee may have looked back, and when he saw the city in the midst of
its hills, with the mountains of Moab in the distance, confident in the
righteousness of his cause, he may have though proudly of the 125th
Psalm: “The hills stand about Jerusalem, even so standeth the Lord round
about His people, from this time forth for evermore.” His present
enterprise was undertaken for the honor of Zion. He was blindly
fulfilling the words of One who said; “Whosoever killeth you will think
that he does God service.” (John 16:2)

Passing through the hills of Samaria, from which he might occasionally
obtain a glimpse of the Mediterranean on the left, he would come to
Jacob’s Well, at the opening of that beautiful valley which lies between
Ebal and Gerizim. This, too, is the scene of a Gospel history. The same
woman with whom Jesus spoke might be again at the well as the Inquisitor
passed. But as yet he knew nothing of the breaking down of the “middle
wall of partition.” (Eph. 2:14) He could, indeed, have said to the
Samaritans, “Ye worship ye know not what, we know what we worship, for
salvation is of the Jews.” (John 4:22) But he could not have understood
the meaning of those other words, “The hour cometh, when ye shall
neither in Jerusalem, nor yet in this mountain, worship the Father, the
true worshippers shall worship Him in spirit and in truth.” (John
4:21,23)

His was not yet the Spirit of Christ. The zeal which burnt in him was
that of James and John, before their illumination, when they wished (in
this same district) to call down fire from heaven, even as Elias did, on
the inhospitable Samaritan village. (Luke 9:51-56) Philip had already
been preaching to the poor Samaritans, and John had revisited them, in
company with Peter, with feelings wonderfully changed. But Saul knew
nothing of he little Church of Samaritan Christians, or, if he heard of
them and delayed among them, de delayed only to injure and oppress. The
Syrian city was still the great object before him. And now, when he had
passed through Samaria and was entering Galilee, the snowy peak of Mount
Hermon, the highest point of Antilibanus, almost as far to the north as
Damascus, would come into view. This is that tower of “Lebanon which
looketh towards Damascus.” (Cant. 7:4) It is already the great landmark
of his journey, as he passes through Galilee towards the sea of
Tiberias, and the valley of the Jordan.

