---
title: "Deborah and Barak"
pdf: "deborahandbarak.pdf"
description: "a fresh oppression of the Israelites, and the glorious victory which they obtained over Sisera, Jabin's general, through the judge Deborah and the heroic warrior Barak."
template: topic.jade
---


<sup>Deborah\\ and\\ Barak</sup>

From *Commentary on the Old Testament*, Leviticus 4 and 5, by C. F. Keil
and F. Delitzsch

Judges 4
========

Oppression of Israel by Jabin, and Deliverance by Deborah and Barak.—Ch. 4 and 5.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Judges 4–5.** This fresh oppression of the Israelites, and the
glorious victory which they obtained over Sisera, Jabin’s general,
through the judge Deborah and the heroic warrior Barak, are so fully
described in Deborah’s triumphal song in Judges 5, that this song may be
regarded as a poetical commentary upon that event. It by no means
follows from this fact, however, that the historical account in Judges 4
was first of all founded upon the ode, and was merely intended to
furnish an explanation of the song itself. Any such assumption is
overthrown by the fact that the prose account in Judges 4, contains, as
even *Bertheau* acknowledges, some historical details which we look for
in vain in the song, and which are of great assistance in the
interpretation of it. All that we can infer with any probability from
the internal connection between the historical narrative and the Song of
Deborah is, that the author of our book took both of them from one
common source; though the few expressions and words which they contain,
such as שְׂמִיכָה in v. 18, תִּצְנַח in v. 21, מָשַׁכְתָּ in v. 6, and
וַיָּהָם in v. 15, do not throw any light upon the source from which
they were derived. For, with the exception of the first, which is not
met with again, the whole of them occur in other passages,—the second in
Judges 1:14 and Josh. 15:18, the third in the same sense in Judges
20:37, and the fourth in Ex. 14:24 and Josh. 10:10. And it by no means
follows, that because in the passages referred to, “יָהֹם is found in
close association with songs or poetical passages” (*Bertheau*), the
word itself must be borrowed from the same source as the songs, viz.,
from the book of Jasher (Josh. 10:13). For הָמַם is found in the same
signification in 1 Sam. 7:10, Ex. 23:27, and Deut. 2:15, where we look
in vain for any songs; whilst it always occurs in connection with the
account of a miraculous overthrow of the foe by the omnipotent power of
God.

**Judges 4.** *The Victory over Jabin and His General Sisera.*—Vv. 1–3.
As the Israelites fell away from the Lord again when Ehud was dead, the
Lord gave them into the hand of the Canaanitish king *Jabin,* who
oppressed them severely for twenty years with a powerful army under
*Sisera* his general. The circumstantial clause, “when Ehud was dead,”
places the falling away of the Israelites from God in direct causal
connection with the death of Ehud on the one hand, and the deliverance
of Israel into the power of Jabin on the other, and clearly indicates
that as long as Ehud lived he kept the people from idolatry (cf. Judges
2:18, 19), and defended Israel from hostile oppressions. Joshua had
already conquered one king, *Jabin* of *Hazor,* and taken his capital
(Josh. 11:1, 10). The king referred to here, who lived more than a
century later, bore the same name. The name *Jabin,* “the discerning,”
may possibly have been a standing name or title of the Canaanitish kings
of Hazor, as Abimelech was of the kings of the Philistines (see at Gen.
26:8). He is called “king of Canaan,” in distinction from the kings of
other nations and lands, such as Moab, Mesopotamia, etc. (Judges 3:8,
12), into whose power the Lord had given up His sinful people. *Hazor,*
once the capital of the kingdoms of northern Canaan, was situated over
(above or to the north of) Lake Huleh, in the tribe of Naphtali, but has
not yet been discovered (see at Josh. 11:1). Sisera, the general of
Jabin, dwelt in *Harosheth* of the *Goyim,* and oppressed the Israelites
most tyrannically (*Mightily:* cf. Judges 7:1, 1 Sam. 2:16) for twenty
years with a force consisting of 900 chariots of iron (see at Josh.
17:16). The situation of *Harosheth,* which only occurs here (vv. 2, 13,
16), is unknown; but it is certainly to be sought for in one of the
larger plains of Galilee, possibly the plain of *Buttauf,* where Sisera
was able to develop his forces, whose strength consisted chiefly in
war-chariots, and to tyrannize over the land of Israel.

**Judges 4:4–11.** At that time the Israelites were judged by *Deborah,*
a prophetess, the wife of Lapidoth, who dwelt under the Deborah-palm
between Ramah (er *Râm:* see at Josh. 18:25) and Bethel (Beitin: see at
Josh. 7:2) in the tribe of Benjamin, upon the mountains of Ephraim.
Deborah is called אִשָּׁה נְבִיאָה on account of her prophetic gift,
like Miriam in Ex. 15:20, and Hulda the wife of Shallum in 2 Kings
22:14. This gift qualified her to judge the nation (the participle
שֹׁפְטָה expresses the permanence of the act of judging), i.e., first of
all to settle such disputes among the people themselves as the lower
courts were unable to decide, and which ought therefore, according to
Deut. 17:8, to be referred to the supreme judge of the whole nation. The
palm where she sat in judgment (cf. Ps. 9:5) was called after her the
*Deborah* -palm. The Israelites went up to her there to obtain justice.
The expression *“came up”* is applied here, as in Deut. 17:8, to the
place of justice, as a spiritual height, independently of the fact that
the place referred to here really stood upon an eminence.

**Judges 4:6ff.** But in order to secure the rights of her people
against their outward foes also, she summoned *Barak* the son of Abinoam
from Kedesh, in the tribe of Naphtali, on the west of the Huleh lake
(see at Josh. 12:22), and made known to him the commands of the Lord:
*“Up and draw to Mount Tabor, and take with thee 10,000 men of the
children of Naphtali and Zebulun; and I will draw to thee into the
brook-valley of Kishon, Sisera the captain of Jabin’s army, and his
chariots, and his multitude* (his men of war), *and give him into thy
hand.”* מָשַׁכְתָּ has been explained in different ways. *Seb. Schmidt,
Clericus,* and others supply הַקֶּרֶן or הַשֹּׁופָר, draw with the
trumpet (cf. Ex. 19:13, Josh. 6:5), i.e., blow the trumpet in long-drawn
tones, upon Mount Tabor, and regard this as the signal for convening
people; whilst *Hengstenberg* (Diss. ii. pp. 76, 77) refers to Num.
10:9, and understands the blowing of the horn as the signal by which the
congregation of the Lord made known its need to Him, and appealed to Him
to come to its help. It cannot indeed be proved that the blowing of the
trumpet was merely the means adopted for convening the people together;
in fact, the use of the following מָשַׁכְתִּי, in the sense of draw, is
to be explained on the supposition that מָשַׁכתָּ is used in a double
sense. “The long-drawn notes were to draw the Lord to them, and then the
Lord would draw to them Sisera, the captain of Jabin’s army. Barak first
calls the helper from heaven, and then the Lord calls the enemy upon
earth.” Nevertheless we cannot subscribe to this explanation, *first* of
all because the supposed ellipsis cannot be sustained in this
connection, when nothing is said about the blowing of a trumpet either
in what precedes or in what follows; and *secondly,* because Num. 10:9
cannot be appealed to in explanation, for the simple reason that it
treats of the blowing of the *silver trumpets* on the part of the
priests, and they must not be confounded with the *shopharoth.* And the
use made of the trumpets at Jericho cannot be transferred to the passage
before us without some further ground. We are disposed therefore to take
the word מָשַׁךְ in the sense of *draw* (intransitive), i.e., proceed
one after another in a long-drawn train (as in Judges 20:37 and Ex.
12:21), referring to the captain and the warriors drawing after him;
whilst in v. 7 it is to be translated in the same way, though with a
transitive signification. Mount Tabor, called ́Ιταβύριον by the Greeks
(see LXX Hos. 5:1), the mountain of Christ’s transfiguration according
to an early tradition of the church, the present Jebel *et Tur,* is a
large truncated cone of limestone, which is almost perfectly insulated,
and rises to the height of about a thousand feet, on the north-eastern
border of the plain of Jezreel. The sides of the mountain are covered
with a forest of oaks and wild pistachios, and upon its flat summit,
which is about half an hour in circumference, there are the remains of
ancient fortifications (see *Robinson,* Pal. iii. pp. 211ff., and *v.
Raumer,* Pal. pp. 37, 38). The words “and take with thee 10,000 men” are
not to be understood as signifying that Barak was to summon the people
together upon the top of Mount Tabor, but the assembling of the people
is presupposed; and all that is commanded is, that he was to proceed to
Mount Tabor with the assembled army, and make his attack upon the enemy,
who were encamped in the valley of Kishon, *from that point.* According
to v. 10, the army was collected at Kedesh in Naphtali. *Nachal Kishon*
is not only the brook *Kishon,* which is formed by streams that take
their rise from springs upon Tabor and the mountains of Gilboa, flows in
a north-westerly direction through the plain of Jezreel to the
Mediterranean, and empties itself into the bay of Acca, and which is
called *Mukatta* by the natives (see *Rob.* iii. pp. 472ff., and *v.
Raumer,* pp. 39, 50), but the valley on both sides of the brook, i.e.,
the plain of Jezreel (see at Josh. 17:16), where the greatest battles
have been fought for the possession of Palestine from time immemorial
down to the most recent times (see *v. Raumer,* pp. 40ff.).

**Judges 4:8ff.** Barak replied that he would not go unless she would go
with him—certainly not for the reason suggested by *Bertheau,* viz.,
that he distrusted the divine promise given to him by Deborah, but
because his mistrust of his own strength was such that he felt too weak
to carry out the command of God. He wanted divine enthusiasm for the
conflict, and this the presence of the prophetess was to infuse into
both Barak and the army that was to be gathered round him. Deborah
promised to accompany him, but announced to him as the punishment for
this want of confidence in the success of his undertaking, that the
prize of victory—namely, the defeat of the hostile general—should be
taken out of his hand; for Jehovah would sell (i.e., deliver up) Sisera
into the hand of a woman, viz., according to vv. 17ff., into the hand of
Jael. She then went with him to Kedesh, where Barak summoned together
Zebulun and Naphtali, i.e., the fighting men of those tribes, and went
up with 10,000 men in his train (“at his feet,” i.e., after him, v. 14;
cf. Ex. 11:8 and Deut. 11:6) to Tabor (“went up:” the expression is used
here to denote the advance of an army against a place). Kedesh, where
the army assembled, was higher than Tabor. זָעַק, *Hiphil* with acc., to
call together (cf. 2 Sam. 20:4, 5). Before the engagement with the foe
is described, there follows in v. 11 a statement that *Heber* the Kenite
had separated himself from his tribe, the children of Hobab, who led a
nomad life in the desert of Judah (Judges 1:16), and had pitched his
tents as far as the oak forest at Zaanannim (see at Josh. 19:33) near
Kedesh. This is introduced because of its importance in relation to the
issue of the conflict which ensued (vv. 17 ff). נִפְרָד with *Kametz* is
a participle, which is used in the place of the perfect, to indicate
that the separation was a permanent one.

**Judges 4:12–16.** As soon as Sisera received tidings of the march of
Barak to Mount Tabor, he brought together all his chariots and all his
men of war from Harosheth of the Goyim into the brook-valley of the
Kishon. Then Deborah said to Barak, *“Up; for this is the day in which
Jehovah hath given Sisera into thy hand. Yea* (הֲלֹא, *nonne,* as an
expression indicating lively assurance), *the Lord goeth out before
thee,”* sc., to the battle, to smite the foe; whereupon Barak went down
from Tabor with his 10,000 men to attack the enemy, according to Judges
5:19, at Taanach by the water of Megiddo.

**Judges 4:15.** *“And the Lord discomfited Sisera, and all his
chariots, and all his army, with the edge of the sword before Barak.”*
וַיָּהָם, as in Ex. 14:24 and Josh. 10:10, denotes the confounding of
the hostile army by a miracle of God, mostly by some miraculous
phenomenon of nature: see, besides Ex. 14:24, 2 Sam. 22:15, Ps. 18:15,
and 144:6. The expression וַיָּהָם places the defeat of Sisera and his
army in the same category as the miraculous destruction of Pharaoh and
of the Canaanites at Gibeon; and the combination of this verb with the
expression “with the edge of the sword” is to be taken as *constructio
praegnans,* in the sense: Jehovah threw Sisera and his army into
confusion, and, like a terrible champion fighting in front of Israel,
smote him without quarter, Sisera sprang from his chariot to save
himself, and fled on foot; but Barak pursued the routed foe to
Harosheth, and completely destroyed them. *“All Sisera’s army fell by
the edge of the sword; there remained not even to one,”* i.e., not a
single man.

**Judges 4:17–22.** Sisera took refuge in the tent of Jael, the wife of
Heber the Kenite, to escape the sword of the Israelites, as king Jabin
lived at peace with the house of Heber, i.e., with this branch of the
Kenites.

**Judges 4:18.** Jael received the fugitive into her tent in the usual
form of oriental hospitality (סוּר, as in Gen. 19:2, 3, to turn aside
from the road and approach a person), and covered him with a covering
(שְׂמִיכָה, ἁπ. λεγ., covering, or rug), that he might be able to sleep,
as he was thoroughly exhausted with his flight.

**Judges 4:19.** On his asking for water to drink, as he was thirsty
(צָמֵתִי, defective form for צָמֵאתִי), she handed him milk from her
bottle, and covered him up again. She gave him milk instead of water, as
Deborah emphatically mentions in her song in Judges 5:25, no doubt
merely for the purpose of giving to her guest a friendly and hospitable
reception. When *Josephus* affirms, in his account of this event (Ant.
v. 5, 4), that she gave him milk that was already spoiled (διεφθορὸς
ἤδη), i.e., had turned sour, and *R. Tanchum* supposes that such milk
intoxicated the weary man, these are merely later decorations of the
simple fact, that have no historical worth whatever.

**Judges 4:20.** In order to be quite sure, Sisera entreated his hostess
to stand before the door and turn any one away who might come to her to
seek for one of the fugitives. עֲמֹד is the imperative for עִמְדִי, as
the syntax proves that the word cannot be an infinitive. The anomaly
apparent in the use of the gender may be accounted for on the ground
that the masculine was the more general form, and might therefore be
used for the more definite feminine. There are not sufficient grounds
for altering it into עָמֹוד, the *inf. abs.* Whether Jael complied with
this wish is not stated; but in the place of anything further, the chief
fact alone is given in v. 21, namely, that Jael took a tent-plug, and
went with a hammer in her hand to Sisera, who had fallen through
exhaustion into a deep sleep, and drove the plug into his temples, so
that it penetrated into the earth, or the floor. The words
וְהוּא־נִרְדַּם וַיָּעַף are introduced as explanatory of the course of
the events: *“but he was fallen into a deep sleep, and exhausted,”*
i.e., had fallen fast asleep through exhaustion. *“And so he died.”*
וַיָּמֹת is attached as a consequence to וַתִּתְקַע … וַתִּצְנַח וגו׳,
whereas וַיָּעַף belongs to the parenthetical clause וְהוּא נִרְדַּם.
This is the explanation adopted by *Rosenmüller,* and also in the remark
of *Kimchi:* “the words נִרְדַּם וַיָּעַף indicate the reason why Sisera
neither heard Jael approach him, nor was conscious of the blow inflicted
upon him.” For the combination of וַיָּעַף with וַיָּמֹת, “then he
became exhausted and died,” which *Stud.* and *Bertheau* support, does
not give any intelligible thought at all. A man who has a tent-peg
driven with a hammer into his temples, so that the peg passes through
his head into the ground, does not become exhausted before he dies, but
dies instantaneously. And וַיָּעַף, from עוּף, equivalent to עָיֵף (Jer.
4:31), or יָעַף, and written with *Patach* in the last syllable, to
distinguish it from עוּף, *volare,* has no other meaning than to be
exhausted, in any of the passages in which it occurs (see 1 Sam. 14:28,
31; 2 Sam. 21:15). The rendering adopted by the LXX, ἐσκοτώθη, cannot be
grammatically sustained.

**Judges 4:22.** When Barak, who was in pursuit of Sisera, arrived at
Jael’s tent, she went to meet him, to show him the deed which he had
performed. Thus was Deborah’s prediction to Barak (v. 9) fulfilled. The
Lord had sold Sisera into the hand of a woman, and deprived Barak of the
glory of the victory. Nevertheless the act itself was not morally
justified, either by this prophetic announcement, or by the fact that it
is commemorated in the song of Deborah in Judges 5:24ff. Even though
there can be no doubt that Jael acted under the influence of religious
enthusiasm for the cause of Israel and its God, and that she was
prompted by religious motives to regard the connection of her tribe with
Israel, the people of the Lord, as higher and more sacred, not only than
the bond of peace, in which her tribe was living with Jabin the
Canaanitish king, but even than the duties of hospitality, which are so
universally sacred to an oriental mind, her heroic deed cannot be
acquitted of the sins of lying, treachery, and assassination, which were
associated with it, by assuming as *Calovius, Buddeus,* and others have
done, that when Jael invited Sisera into her tent, and promised him
safety, and quenched this thirst with milk, she was acting with perfect
sincerity, and without any thought of killing him, and that it was not
till after he was fast asleep that she was instigated and impelled
*instinctu Dei arcano* to perform the deed. For Jehovah, the God of
Israel, not only abhors lying lips (Prov. 12:22), but hates wickedness
and deception of every kind. It is true, He punishes the ungodly at the
hand of sinners; but the sinners whom He employs as the instruments of
His penal justice in carrying out the plans of His kingdom, are not
instigated to the performance of wicked deeds by an inward and secret
impulse from Him. God had no doubt so ordered it, that Sisera should
meet with his death in Jael’s tent, where he had taken refuge; but this
divine purpose did not justify Jael in giving to the enemy of Israel a
hospitable reception into her tent, making him feel secure both by word
and deed, and then murdering him secretly while he was asleep. Such
conduct as that was not the operation of the Spirit of God, but the
fruit of a heroism inspired by flesh and blood; and even in Deborah’s
song (Judges 5:24ff.) it is not lauded as a divine act.

**Judges 4:23, 24.** *“So God subdued at that time Jabin the king of
Canaan before the children of Israel; and the hand of the Israelites
became heavier and heavier in its pressure upon him, until they had
destroyed him.”* וַתֵּלֶךְ יַד … הָלֹוךְ וְקָשָׁה, “the hand … increased
more and more, becoming heavy.” הָלַךְ, used to denote the progress or
continual increase of an affair, as in Gen. 8:3, etc., is connected with
the infinitive absolute, and with the participle of the action
concerned. קָשָׁה is the feminine participle of קָשֶׁה, like גָּדֵל in
Gen. 26:13 (see *Ges.* § 131, 3, Anm. 3). The overthrow of Jabin and his
rule did not involve the extermination of the Canaanites generally.

*Deborah’s Song of Victory.*—Ch. 5.

**Judges 5.** This highly poetical song is so direct and lively an
utterance of the mighty force of the enthusiasm awakened by the
exaltation of Israel, and its victory over Sisera, that its genuineness
if generally admitted now. After a general summons to praise the Lord
for the courage with which the people rose up to fight against their
foes (v. 2), Deborah the singer dilates in the first section (vv. 3–11)
upon the significance of the victory, picturing in lively colours (1)
the glorious times when Israel was exalted to be the nation of the Lord
(vv. 3–5); (2) the disgraceful decline of the nation in the more recent
times (vv. 6–8); and (3) the joyful turn of affairs which followed her
appearance (vv. 9–11). After a fresh summons to rejoice in their victory
(v. 12), there follows in the *second* section (vv. 13–21) a lively
picture of the conflict and victory, in which there is a vivid
description (*a*) of the mighty gathering of the brave to battle (vv.
13–15*a*)*;* (*b*) of the cowardice of those who stayed away from the
battle, and of the bravery with which the braver warriors risked their
lives in the battle (vv. 15*b*–18); and (*c*) of the successful result
of the conflict (vv. 19–21). To this there is appended in the *third*
section (vv. 22–31) an account of the glorious issue of the battle and
the victory: first of all, a brief notice of the flight and pursuit of
the foe (vv. 22–24); secondly, a commemoration of the slaying of Sisera
by Jael (vv. 24–27); and thirdly, a scornful description of the
disappointment of Sisera’s mother, who was counting upon a large arrival
of booty (vv. 28–30). The song then closes with the hope, founded upon
this victory, that all the enemies of the Lord might perish, and Israel
increase in strength (v. 31*a*). The whole song, therefore, is divided
into three leading sections, each of which again is arranged in three
somewhat unequal strophes, the first and second sections being
introduced by a summons to the praise of God (vv. 2, 12), whilst the
third closes with an expression of hope, drawn from the contents of the
whole, with regard to the future prospects of the kingdom of God (v.
31*a*).

Judges 5
========

**Judges 5:1.** The historical introduction (*“Then sang Deborah and
Barak the son of Abinoam on that day, saying”*) takes the place of a
heading, and does not mean that the song of Deborah and Barak which
follows was composed by them jointly, but simply that it was sung by
them together, in commemoration of the victory. The poetess or writer of
the song, according to vv. 3, 7, and 12, was Deborah. The song itself
opens with a summons to praise the Lord for the willing and joyful
rising up of His people.

2 *That the strong in Israel showed themselves strong,*

*That the people willingly offered themselves,*

*Praise ye the Lord!*

**Judges 5:2.** The meaning of פָּרַע and פְּרָעֹות is a subject of
dispute. According to the Septuagint rendering, and that of *Theodot.,*
ἐν τῷ ἄρξασθαι ἀρχηγοὺς ἐνΊσραήλ, many give it the meaning to begin or
to lead, and endeavour to establish this meaning from an Arabic word
signifying to find one’s self at the head of an affair. But this meaning
cannot be established in Hebrew. פָּרַע has no other meaning than to let
loose from something, to let a person loose or free (see at Lev. 10:6);
and in the only other passage where פְּרָעֹות occurs (Deut. 32:42), it
does not refer to a leader, but to the luxuriant growth of the hair as
the sign of great strength. Hence in this passage also פְּרָעֹות
literally means *comati,* the hairy ones, i.e., those who possessed
strength; and פָּרַע, to manifest or put forth strength. The persons
referred to are the champions in the fight, who went before the nation
with strength and bravery. The preposition בּ before פְּרֹעַ indicates
the reason for praising God, or rather the object with which the praise
of the Lord was connected. בִּפְרֹעַ וגו׳, literally “in the showing
themselves strong.” The meaning is, “for the fact that the strong in
Israel put forth strength.” הִתְנָדֵּב, to prove one’s self willing,
here to go into the battle of their own free will, without any outward
and authoritative command. This introduction transports us in the most
striking manner into the time of the judges, when Israel had no king who
could summon the nation to war, but everything depended upon the
voluntary rising of the strong and the will of the nation at large. The
manifestation of this strength and willingness Deborah praises as a
gracious gift of the Lord. After this summons to praise the Lord, the
first part of the song opens with an appeal to the kings and princes of
the earth to hear what Deborah has to proclaim to the praise of God.

3 Hear, ye kings; give ear, ye princes!

I, to the Lord will I sing,

Will sing praise to the Lord, the God of Israel.

4 Lord, when Thou wentest out from Seir,

When Thou marchedst out of the fields of Edom,

The earth trembled, and the heavens also dropped;

The clouds also dropped water.

5 The mountains shook before the Lord,

Sinai there before the Lord, the God of Israel.

**Judges 5:3.** The “kings and princes” are not the rulers in Israel,
for Israel had no kings at that time, but the kings and princes of the
heathen nations, as in Ps. 2:2. These were to discern the mighty acts of
Jehovah in Israel, and learn to fear Jehovah as the almighty God. For
the song to be sung applies to Him, the God of Israel. זִמֵּר, ψάλλειν,
is the technical expression for singing with an instrumental
accompaniment (see at Ex. 15:2).

**Judges 5:4, 5.** To give the Lord the glory for the victory which had
been gained through His omnipotent help over the powerful army of
Sisera, and to fill the heathen with fear of Jehovah, and the Israelites
with love and confidence towards Him, the singer reverts to the terribly
glorious manifestation of Jehovah in the olden time, when Israel was
accepted as the nation of God (Ex. 19). Just as Moses in his blessing
(Deut. 33:2) referred the tribes of Israel to this mighty act, as the
source of all salvation and blessing for Israel, so the prophetess
Deborah makes the praise of this glorious manifestation of God the
starting-point of her praise of the great grace, which Jehovah as the
faithful covenant God had displayed to His people in her own days. The
tacit allusion to Moses’ blessing is very unmistakeable. But whereas
Moses describes the descent of the Lord upon Sinai (Ex. 19), according
to its gracious significance in relation to the tribes of Israel, as an
objective fact (Jehovah came from Sinai, Deut. 33:2), Deborah clothes
the remembrance of it in the form of an address to God, to bring out the
thought that the help which Israel had just experienced was a renewal of
the coming of the Lord to His people. Jehovah’s going out of Seir, and
marching out of the fields of Edom, is to be interpreted in the same
sense as His rising up from Seir (Deut. 33:2). As the descent of the
Lord upon Sinai is depicted there as a rising of the sun from the east,
so the same descent in a black cloud amidst thunder, lightning, fire,
and vapour of smoke (Ex. 19:16, 18), is represented here with direct
allusion to these phenomena as a storm rising up from Seir in the east,
in which the Lord advanced to meet His people as they came from the west
to Sinai. Before the Lord, who came down upon Sinai in the storm and
darkness of the cloud, the earth shook and the heaven dropped, or, as it
is afterwards more definitely explained, the clouds dropped with water,
emptied themselves of their abundance of water as they do in the case of
a storm. The mountains shook (נָזְלוּ, *Niphal* of זָלַל, dropping the
reduplication of the ל = נָזֹלּוּ, Isa. 63:19; 64:2), even the strong
rocky mountain of Sinai, which stood out so distinctly before the eyes
of the singer, that she speaks of it as “this Sinai,” pointing to it as
though it were locally near. David’s description of the miraculous
guidance of Israel through the desert in Ps. 68:8, 9, is evidently
founded upon this passage, though it by no means follows from this that
the passage before us also treats of the journey through the desert, as
*Clericus* supposes, or even of the presence of the Lord in the battle
with Sisera, and the victory which it secured. But greatly as Israel had
been exalted at Sinai by the Lord its God, it had fallen just as deeply
into bondage to its oppressors through its own sins, until Deborah arose
to help it (vv. 6–8).

6 In the days of Shamgar, the son of Anath,

In the days of Jael, the paths kept holiday,

And the wanderers of the paths went crooked ways.

7 The towns in Israel kept holiday, they kept holiday,

Until that I, Deborah, arose,

That I arose a mother in Israel

8 They chose new gods;

Then was war at the gates:

Was there a shield seen and a spear

Among forty thousand in Israel?

**Judges 5:6.** The deep degradation and disgrace into which Israel had
sunk before the appearance of Deborah, through its falling away from the
Lord into idolatry, forms the dark reverse of that glorification at
Sinai. Although, after Ehud, Shamgar had also brought help to the people
against their enemies by a victory over the Philistines (Judges 3:31),
and although Jael, who proved herself a heroine by slaying the fugitive
Sisera, was then alive, things had got to such a pitch with Israel, that
no one would venture upon the public high roads. There are no good
grounds for the conjecture that Jael was a different person from the
Jael mentioned in Judges 4:17ff., whether a judge who is not further
known, as *Ewald* supposes, or a female judge who stood at the head of
the nation in these unhappy times (*Bertheau*). חָדְלוּ אֳרָחֹות, lit.,
*“the paths ceased,”* sc., to be paths, or to be trodden by men. הֹלְכֵי
נְתִיבֹות, *“those who went upon paths,”* or beaten ways, i.e., those
who were obliged to undertake journeys for the purpose of friendly
intercourse or trade, notwithstanding the burden of foreign rule which
pressed upon the land; such persons went by *“twisted paths,”* i.e., by
roads and circuitous routes which turned away from the high roads. And
the פְּרָזֹון, i.e., the *cultivated land,* with its open towns and
villages, and with their inhabitants, was as forsaken and desolate as
the public highways. The word *perazon* has been rendered judge or
guidance by modern expositors, after the example of *Teller* and
*Gesenius;* and in v. 11 decision or guidance. But this meaning, which
has been adopted into all the more recent lexicons, has nothing really
to support it, and does not even suit our verse, into which it would
introduce the strange contradiction, that at the time when Shamgar and
Jael were judges, there were no judges in Israel. In addition to the
Septuagint version, which renders the word δυνατοὶ in this verse (i.e.,
according to the *Cod. Vat.,* for the *Col. Al.* has φράζων), and then
in the most unmeaning way adopts the rendering αὔξησον in v. 11, from
which we may clearly see that the translators did not know the meaning
of the word, it is common to adduce an Arabic word which signifies
*segregavit, discrevit rem ab aliis,* though it is impossible to prove
that the Arabic word ever had the meaning to judge or to lead. All the
old translators, as well as the Rabbins, have based their rendering of
the word upon פְּרָזִי, inhabitant of the flat country (Deut. 3:5, and 1
Sam. 6:18), and פְּרָזֹות, the open flat country, as distinguished from
the towns surrounded by walls (Ezek. 38:11; Zech. 2:8), according to
which פְּרָזֹון, as the place of meeting, would denote both the
cultivated land with its unenclosed towns and villages, and also the
population that was settled in the open country in unfortified places,—a
meaning which also lies at the foundation of the word in Hab. 3:14.
Accordingly, *Luther* has rendered the word *Bauern* (peasants). עַד
שַׁקַּמְתִּי for עַד אֲשֶׁר קַמְתִּי. The contraction of אֲשֶׁר into שׁ,
with *Dagesh* following, and generally pointed with *Seghol,* but here
with *Patach* on account of the ק, which is closely related to the
gutturals, belongs to the popular character of the song, and is
therefore also found in the Song of Solomon (Song 1:12; 2:7, 17; 4:6).
It is also met with here and there in simple prose (Judges 6:17; 7:12;
8:26); but it was only in the literature of the time of the captivity
and a still later date, that it found its way more and more from the
language of ordinary conversation into that of the Scriptures. Deborah
describes herself as “a mother in Israel,” on account of her having
watched over her people with maternal care, just as Job calls himself a
father to the poor who had been supported by him (Job 29:16; cf. Isa.
22:21).

**Judges 5:8.** Verse 8 describes the cause of the misery into which
Israel had fallen. אֱלֹהִים חֲדָשִׁים is the object to יִבְחַר, and the
subject is to be found in the previous term *Israel.* Israel forsook its
God and creator, and chose new gods, i.e., gods not worshipped by its
fathers (vid., Deut. 32:17). Then there was war (לָחֶם, the construct
state of לָחֵם, a verbal noun formed from the *Piel,* and signifying
conflict or war) at the gates; i.e., the enemy pressed up to the very
gates of the Israelitish towns, and besieged them, and there was not
seen a shield or spear among forty thousand in Israel, i.e., there were
no warriors found in Israel who ventured to defend the land against the
foe. אִם indicates a question with a negative reply assumed, as in 1
Kings 1:27, etc. Shield and spear (or lance) are mentioned particularly
as arms of offence and defence, to signify arms of all kinds. The words
are not to be explained from 1 Sam. 13:22, as signifying that there were
no longer any weapons to be found among the Israelites, because the
enemy had taken them away (“not seen” is not equivalent to “not found”
in 1 Sam. 13:22); they simply affirm that there were no longer any
weapons to be seen, because not one of the 40,000 men in Israel took a
weapon in his hand. The number 40,000 is not the number of the men who
offered themselves willingly for battle, according to v. 2 (*Bertheau*);
for apart from the fact that they did not go unarmed into the battle, it
is at variance with the statement in Judges 4:6, 10, that Barak went
into the war and smote the enemy with only 10,000 men. It is a round
number, i.e., an approximative statement of the number of the warriors
who might have smitten the enemy and delivered Israel from bondage, and
was probably chosen with a reference to the 40,000 fighting men of the
tribes on the east of the Jordan, who went with Joshua to Canaan and
helped their brethren to conquer the land (Josh. 4:13). Most of the more
recent expositors have given a different rendering of v. 8. Many of them
render the first clause according to the *Peshito* and *Vulgate, “God
chose something new,”* taking *Elohim* as the subject, and *chadashim*
(new) as the object. But to this it has very properly been objected,
that, according to the terms of the song, it was not *Elohim* but
*Jehovah* who effected the deliverance of Israel, and that the Hebrew
for new things is not חֲדָשִׁים, but חֲדָשֹׁות (Isa. 42:9; 48:6), or
חֲדָשָׁה (Isa. 43:19; Jer. 31:22). On these grounds *Ewald* and
*Bertheau* render *Elohim* “judges” (they chose new judges), and appeal
to Ex. 21:6; 22:7, 8, where the authorities who administered justice in
the name of God are called *Elohim.* But these passages are not
sufficient by themselves to establish the meaning “judges,” and still
less to establish the rendering “new judges” for *Elohim chadashim.*
Moreover, according to both these explanations, the next clause must be
understood as relating to the specially courageous conflict which the
Israelites in their enthusiasm carried on with Sisera; whereas the
further statement, that among 40,000 warriors who offered themselves
willingly for battle there was not a shield or a lance to be seen, is
irreconcilably at variance with this. For the explanation suggested,
namely, that these warriors did not possess the ordinary weapons for a
well-conducted engagement, but had nothing but bows and swords, or
instead of weapons of any kind had only the staffs and tools of
shepherds and husbandmen, is proved to be untenable by the simple fact
that there is nothing at all to indicate any contrast between ordinary
and extraordinary weapons, and that such a contrast is altogether
foreign to the context. Moreover, the fact appealed to, that אָז points
to a victorious conflict in vv. 13, 19, 22, as well as in v. 11, is not
strong enough to support the view in question, as אָז is employed in v.
19 in connection with the battle of the kings of Canaan, which was not a
successful one, but terminated in a defeat.

The singer now turns from the contemplation of the deep degradation of
Israel to the glorious change which took place as soon as she appeared:—

9 My heart inclines to the leaders of Israel;

To those who offered themselves willingly in the nation. Praise ye the
Lord!

10 Ye that ride upon white asses;

Ye that sit upon covering,

And that walk in the way, reflect!

11 With the voice of the archers among drawers (of water),

There praise ye the righteous acts of the Lord,

The righteous acts of His villages in Israel.

Then the people of the Lord went down to the gates!

**Judges 5:9.** We must supply the *subst. verb* in connection with
לִבִּי לְ, *“My heart is* (sc., inclined) *towards the leaders of
Israel,”* i.e., feels itself drawn towards them. חֹוקֵק for מְחֹוקֵק (v.
14), the determining one, i.e., the commander or leader in war: as in
Deut. 33:21. The leaders and willing ones are first of all to praise the
Lord for having crowned their willingness with victory.

**Judges 5:10.** And all classes of the people, both high and low, have
reason to join in the praise. Those who ride upon white, i.e.,
white-spotted asses, are the upper classes generally, and not merely the
leaders (cf. Judges 10:4; 12:14). צָחֹר, *lit.* dazzling white; but
since there are no asses that are perfectly white, and white was a
colour that was highly valued both by Hebrews and Arabs, they applied
the term white to those that were only spotted with white. Those who sit
upon coverings (מִדִּין from מַד, a covering or carpet, with the plural
termination ין, which is to be regarded as a poetical Chaldaism) are the
rich and prosperous; and those who walk on the way, i.e., travellers on
foot, represent the middle and lower classes, who have to go about and
attend to their affairs. Considered logically, this triple division of
the nation is not a very exact one, as the first two do not form a true
antithesis. But the want of exactness does not warrant our fusing
together the middle term and the first, and understanding by *middin*
either saddles or saddle-cloths, as *Ewald* and *Bertheau* have done;
for saddle-cloths are still further from forming an antithesis to asses,
so that those who ride upon white asses could be distinguished, as the
upper classes and leaders, from those who sit upon saddles, or are
“somewhat richer.” Moreover, there is no reason for regarding these
three classes as referring simply to the long line of warriors hastening
from the victory to the triumphal *fête.* On the contrary, all classes
of the people are addressed, as enjoying the fruits of the victory that
had been obtained: the upper classes, who ride upon their costly
animals; the rich resting at home upon their splendid carpets; and the
poor travellers, who can now go quietly along the high-road again
without fear of interruption from the foe (v. 6). שִׂיחוּ is rendered
*“sing”* by many; but this rendering cannot be sustained from Ps. 105:2
and 145:5, and it is not necessary on the verse before us, since the
well-established meaning of the word “ponder,” reflect, sc., upon the
acts of the Lord, is a perfectly suitable one.

**Judges 5:11.** The whole nation had good reason to make this
reflection, as the warriors, having returned home, were now relating the
mighty acts of the Lord among the women who were watering their flocks,
and the people had returned to their towns once more. This is in all
probability the idea of the obscure verse before us, which has been
interpreted in such very different ways. The first clause, which has no
verb, and cannot constitute a sentence by itself, must be connected with
the following clause, and taken as an *anakolouthon,* as שָׁם יְתַנּוּ
does not form a direct continuation of the clause commencing with
מִקֹּול. After the words *“from the voice of the archers,”* we should
expect the continuation *“there is heard,”* or “there sounds forth the
praise of the acts of the Lord.” Instead of that, the construction that
was commenced is relinquished at שָׁם יְתַנּוּ, and a different turn is
given to the thought. This not only seems to offer the simplest
explanation, but the only possible solution of the difficulty. For the
explanation that מִן is to be taken as signifying “away from,” as in
Num. 15:24, etc., in the sense of “far from the voice of the archers,
among the watering women,” does not suit the following word שָׁם,
“there,” at all. It would be necessary to attribute to מִן the meaning
“no more disquieted by,” a meaning which the preposition could not
possibly have in this clause. מְחַצְצִים are not sharers in the booty,
for חָצַץ simply means to cut, to cut in pieces, to divide, and is never
applied to the sharing of booty, for which חִלֵּק is the word used
(vid., v. 30; Ps. 68:13; Isa. 9:2). מְחַצֵּץ is to be regarded, as the
Rabbins maintain, as a *denom.* from חֵץ, to hold an arrow, signifying
therefore the shooter of an arrow. It was probably a natural thing for
Deborah, who dwelt in Benjamin, to mention the archers as
representatives of warriors generally, since this was the principal
weapon employed by the Benjaminites (see 1 Chron. 8:40; 12:2; 2 Chron.
14:7; 17:17). The tarrying of the warriors among the drawers of water,
where the flocks and herds were being watered, points to the time of
peace, when the warriors were again occupied with their civil and
domestic affairs. יְתַנּוּ is a simple aorist. תִּנָּה, *lit.* to
repeat, then to relate, or praise. *“The righteousness of Jehovah,”*
i.e., the marvellous acts of the Lord in and upon Israel for the
accomplishing of His purposes of salvation, in which the righteousness
of His work upon earth was manifested (cf. 1 Sam. 12:7, Micah 6:5).
צִדְקֹות פִּרְזֹונֹו has been rendered by modern expositors, either “the
righteous acts of His guidance or of His decision” (*Ewald* and
*Bertheau*), or “the righteous acts of His commanders,” or “the benefits
towards His princes (leaders) in Israel” (*Ros.* and others). But
neither of these can be sustained. We must take פְּרָזֹון here in just
the same sense as in v. 7; the country covered with open towns and
villages, together with their inhabitants, whom Jehovah had delivered
from the hostile oppression that had rested upon them, by means of the
victory obtained over Sisera. After that victory the people of the Lord
went down again to their gates, from the mountains and hiding-places in
which they had taken refuge from their foes (vv. 6, 7), returning again
to the plains of the land, and the towns that were now delivered from
the foe.

**Judges 5:12.** V. 12 forms the introduction to the second part, viz.,
the description of the conflict and the victory. Throwing herself into
the great event which she is about to commemorate, Deborah calls upon
herself to strike up a song, and upon Barak to lead off his prisoners:

12 Awake, awake, Deborah!

Awake, awake, utter a song!

Rise up, Barak, and lead captive thy captives, O son of Abinoam!

עוּרִי has the tone upon the last syllable on the first two occasions,
to answer to the rapid summoning burst of the Lord in the opening
address (*Bertheau*). שָׁבָה שְׁבִי, to lead away captives, as the fruit
of the victory; not merely to lead in triumph. On the form וּשֲׁבַה with
*Chateph-patach,* see *Ewald,* § 90, *b.* In the next three strophes of
this part (vv. 13–21) the progress of the conflict is described; and in
the first two the part taken in the battle by the different tribes (vv.
13–15*a,* and 15*b*–18).

13 Then came down a remnant of nobles of the nation;

Jehovah came down to me among the heroes.

14 Of Ephraim, whose root in Amalek;

Behind thee Benjamin among thy peoples.

From Machir came down leaders,

And from Zebulun marchers with the staff of the conductor.

15a And princes in Issachar with Deborah,

And Issachar as well as Barak,

Driven into the valley through his feet.

**Judges 5:13.** Looking back to the commencement of the battle, the
poetess describes the streaming of the brave men of the nation down from
the mountains, to fight the enemy with Barak and Deborah in the valley
of Jezreel; though the whole nation did not raise as one man against its
oppressors, but only a remnant of the noble and brave in the nation,
with whom Jehovah went into the battle. In v. 13 the Masoretic pointing
of יְרַד is connected with the rabbinical idea of the word as the *fut.
apoc.* of רָדָה: *“then* (now) *will the remnant rule over the
glorious,”* i.e., the remnant left in Israel over the stately foe;
“Jehovah rules for me (or through me) over the heroes in Sisera’s army,”
which *Luther* has also adopted. But, as *Schnurr.* has maintained, this
view is decidedly erroneous, inasmuch as it is altogether irreconcilable
with the description which follows of the marching of the tribes of
Israel into the battle. ירד is to be understood in the same sense as
יָרְדוּ in v. 14, and to be pointed as a perfect יָרַד.<sup>10</sup>
*“There came down,”* sc., from the mountains of the land into the plain
of Jezreel, a remnant of nobles. לְאַדִּירִים is used instead of a
closer subordination through the construct state, to bring out the idea
of שָׂרִיד into greater prominence (see *Ewald,* § 292). עָם is in
apposition to לְאַדִּירִים, and not to be connected with the following
word יְהֹוָה, as it is by some, in opposition to the accents. The
thought is rather this: with the nobles or among the brave Jehovah
himself went against the foe. לִי is a *dat. commodi,* equivalent to
“for my joy.”

**Judges 5:14.** *“From* (מִנִּי, poetical for מִן) *Ephraim,”* sc.,
there came fighting men; not the whole tribe, but only nobles or brave
men, and indeed those whose roots were in Amalek, i.e., those who were
rooted or had taken root, i.e., had settled and spread themselves out
upon the tribe-territory of Ephraim, which had formerly been inhabited
by Amalekites, the mount of the Amalekites, mentioned in Judges 12:15
(for the figure itself, see Isa. 27:6, Ps. 80:10, and Job 5:3). *“Behind
thee,”* i.e., behind Ephraim, there followed Benjamin among thy
(Ephraim’s) people (עֲמָמִים, a poetical form for עַמִּים, in the sense
of hosts). Benjamin lived farther south than Ephraim, and therefore,
when looked at from the stand-point of the plain of Jezreel, behind
Ephraim; “but he came upon the scene of battle, either in subordination
to the more powerful Ephraimites, or rushing on with the Ephraimitish
hosts” (*Bertheau*)*. “From Machir,”* i.e., from western Manasseh, there
came down leaders (see at v. 9), sc., with warriors in their train.
*Machir* cannot refer to the Manassite family of Machir, to which Moses
gave the northern part of Gilead, and Bashan, for an inheritance (comp.
Josh. 17:1 with 13:29–31), but it stands poetically for Manasseh
generally, as Machir was the only son of Manasseh, from whom all the
Manassites were descended (Gen. 50:23; Num. 26:29ff., 27:1). The
reference here, however, is simply to that portion of the tribe of
Manasseh which had received its inheritance by the side of Ephraim, in
the land to the west of the Jordan. This explanation of the word is
required, not only by the fact that Machir is mentioned after Ephraim
and Benjamin, and before Zebulun and Issachar, but still more decidedly
by the introduction of Gilead beyond Jordan in connection with Reuben,
in v. 17, which can only signify Gad and eastern Manasseh. Hence the two
names *Machir* and *Gilead,* the names of Manasseh’s son and grandson,
are poetically employed to denote the two halves of the tribe of
Manasseh; Machir signifying the western Manassites, and Gilead the
eastern. *“From Zebulun marchers* (מָשַׁךְ, to approach in long
processions, as in Judges 4:6) *with the staff of the conductor.”*
סֹפֵר, writer or numberer, was the technical name given to the
musterer-general, whose duty it was to levy and muster the troops (2
Kings 25:19; cf. 2 Chron. 26:11); here it denotes the military leader
generally.

**Judges 5:15a**. שָׂרַי, *“my princes,”* does not furnish any
appropriate meaning, as neither Deborah nor Barak was of the tribe of
Issachar, and it is not stated anywhere that the Issacharites gathered
round Deborah as their leaders. The reading שָׂרֵי (*stat. constr.*),
adopted by the old versions, must be taken as the correct one, and the
introduction of the preposition בְּ does not preclude this (compare
הָרֵי בַגִּלְבֹּעַ, 2 Sam. 1:21, and *Ewald,* § 289, *b.*). עִם, which
is used to denote an outward equality, as in 1 Sam. 17:42, and is
substantially the same as the כֵּן which follows (*“just as”*), is
construed without ךְּ in the first clause, as in Ps. 48:6. בָּעֵמֶק:
into the valley of Jezreel, the plain of Kishon. שֻׁלַּח בְּרַגְלָיו, as
in Job 18:8, to be sent off, i.e., incessantly impelled, through his
feet; here it is applied to an irresistible force of enthusiasm for the
battle. The nominative to שֻׁלַּח is Issachar and Barak.

15b At the brooks of Reuben were great resolutions of heart.

16 Why remainest thou between the hurdles,

To hear the piping of the flocks?

At the brooks of Reuben were great projects of heart.

17 Gilead rests on the other side of the Jordan;

And Dan … why tarries he by ships?

Asher sits on the shore of the sea,

And by his bays he reposes.

18 Zebulun, a people that despises its soul even to death,

And Naphtali upon the heights of the field.

In this strophe Deborah first of all mentions the tribes which took no
part in the conflict (vv. 15*b*17), and then returns in v. 18 to the
Zebulunites, who staked their life along with Naphtali for the
deliverance of Israel from the yoke of the enemy. The enumeration of the
tribes who remained at a distance from the conflict commences with
Reuben (vv. 15*b* and 16). In this tribe there did arise a lively
sympathy with the national elevation. They held meetings, passed great
resolutions, but it led to no practical result; and at length they
preferred to remain quietly at home in their own comfortable pastoral
life. The meaning brooks for פְּלַגֹּות is well established by Job
20:17, and there is no reason whatever for explaining the word as
equivalent to פְּלֻגֹּות, מִפְלַגֹּות, divisions (2 Chron. 35:5, 12;
Ezra 6:18). The territory of Reuben, which was celebrated for its
splendid pastures, must have abounded in brooks. The question, Why
satest thou, or remainedst thou sitting between the hurdles? i.e., in
the comfortable repose of a shepherd’s life, is an utterance of
amazement; and the irony is very apparent in the next clause, to hear
the bleating of the flocks, i.e., the piping of the shepherds, instead
of the blast of the war-trumpets.

**Judges 5:17.** Gilead, Dan, and Asher took no part at all. By
*Gilead,* the tribes of Gad and half Manasseh are intended. The use of
the term הַגִּלְעָד to denote the whole of the territory of the
Israelites on the east of the Jordan probably gave occasion to this,
although גִּלְעָד (without the article) does not refer to the land even
here, but refers primarily to the grandson of Manasseh, as the
representative of his family which dwelt in Gilead. (For further
remarks, see at v. 14.) Dan also did not let the national movement
disturb it in its earthly trade and commerce. גּוּר, to keep one’s self
in a place, is construed here with the accusative of the place, as in
Ps. 120:5. The territory of Dan included the port of Joppa (see at Josh.
19:46), where the Danites probably carried on a trade with the
Phoenicians. Asher also in his land upon the coast did not allow himself
to be disturbed from his rest, to join in the common war of its nation.
חֹוף יַמִּים is used, as in Gen. 49:13, for the shore of the
Mediterranean Sea. מִפְרָצִים, ἁπ. λεγ., literally a rent, and hence
applied to a bay, as an incision made in the sea-shore.

**Judges 5:18.** Zebulun and Naphtali acted quite differently. Zebulun
showed itself as a people that despised its life even to death, i.e.,
that sacrificed its life for the deliverance of its fatherland. Naphtali
did the same in its mountain home. The two tribes had raised 10,000
fighting men at Barak’s call (Judges 4:10), who constituted at any rate
the kernel of the Israelitish army.

If we run over the tribes enumerated, it seems strange that the tribes
of Judah and Simeon are not mentioned either among those who joined in
the battle, or among those who stayed away. The only way in which this
can be explained is on the supposition that these two tribes were never
summoned by Barak, either because they were so involved in conflict with
the Philistines, that they were unable to render any assistance to the
northern tribes against their Canaanitish oppressors, as we might infer
from Judges 3:31, or because of some inward disagreement between these
tribes and the rest. But even apart from Judah and Simeon, the want of
sympathy on the part of the tribes that are reproved is a sufficient
proof that the enthusiasm for the cause of the Lord had greatly
diminished in the nation, and that the internal unity of the
congregation was considerably loosened.

In the next strophe the battle and the victory are described:—

19 Kings came, … they fought;

The kings of Canaan fought

At Taanach, at the waters of Megiddo.

A piece of silver they did not take.

20 From heaven they fought,

The stars from their courses fought against Sisera.

21 The brook of Kishon swept them away,

The brook of the olden time, the brook Kishon.

Go on, my soul, in strength!

**Judges 5:19.** The advance of the foe is described in few words. Kings
came on and fought. They were the kings of Canaan, since Jabin, like his
ancestor (Josh. 11:1ff.), had formed an alliance with other kings of
northern Canaan, who went to the battle under the command of Sisera. The
battle took place at Taanach (see at Josh. 12:21), by the water of
Megiddo, the present Lejun (see at Josh. 12:21), i.e., by the brook
Kishon (cf. Judges 4:7). Taanach and Megiddo were not quite five miles
apart, and beside and between them there were several brooks which ran
into the southern arm of the Kishon, that flowed through the plain to
the north of both these towns. The hostile kings went into the battle
with the hope of slaying the Israelites and making a rich capture of
booty. But their hopes were disappointed. They could not take with them
a piece of silver as booty. בֶּצַע, which generally signifies booty or
gain, is probably to be taken here in its primary sense of *frustum,*
from בָּצַע, to cut off or cut in pieces, a “piece of silver,”
equivalent to a single piece of valuable booty.

**Judges 5:20.** For not only did the Israelites fight against them, but
he powers of heaven also. *“From heaven”* is more minutely defined by
*“the stars from their courses.”* These words explain the statement in
Judges 4:15, “the Lord discomfited Sisera;” though in our opinion not so
clearly as to enable us to define more precisely the natural phenomenon
by which God threw the enemy into confusion. In all probability we have
to think of a terrible storm, with thunder and lightning and hail, or
the sudden bursting of a cloud, which is poetically described as though
the stars of heaven had left their courses to fight for the Lord and His
kingdom upon earth.

**Judges 5:21.** The kings of Canaan could do nothing against these
powers. They were smitten; the brook Kishon washed them (i.e., their
corpses) away. The meaning “to wash away” is well established by the
dialects and the context, though the verb itself only occurs here. As
the battle was fought between Taanach and Megiddo, i.e., to the south of
the brook Kishon, and the smitten foe fled towards the north, many of
them met with their death in the waves of the brook, which was flowing
over its banks at the time. The brook is called נַחַל קְדוּמִים, i.e.,
the brook of the old world or the olden time (according to the LXX *Cod.
Vat.* χειμάρ́ῥους ἀρχαίων), as the stream that had been flowing from time
immemorial, and not, as the Chaldee interprets it, the stream that had
been celebrated from olden time on account of the mighty acts that had
been performed there. The meaning suggested by *Ewald* and others,
“brook of attacks, or slaughters,” is not well sustained, although
קִדֵּם is sometimes used to denote a hostile encounter. The last clause
interrupts the description of the slaughter and the victory. Borne away
by the might of the acts to be commemorated, Deborah stimulates her
soul, i.e., herself, to a vigorous continuation of her song. תִּדְרְכִי
is jussive, and עֹז an accusative governed by the verb, in strength,
vigorously; for she had still to celebrate the glorious results of the
victory. This is done in the third part of the song (vv. 22–31), the
first strophe of which (vv. 22–24) describes in brief drastic traits the
flight of the foe, and the treatment of the fugitives by the people of
the land.

22 Then did the hoofs of the horses stamp

With the hunting, the hunting of his strong ones.

23 Curse ye Meroz, saith the angel of the Lord;

Curse ye, curse ye the inhabitants thereof!

Because they came not to the help of Jehovah,

To the help of Jehovah among the mighty.

24 Blessed before women be Jael,

The wife of Heber the Kenite,

Blessed before women in the tent!

**Judges 5:22.** The war-chariots of the enemy hunted away in the
wildest flight (v. 22). The horses stamped the ground with the
continuous hunting or galloping away of the warriors. דַהֲרָה, the
hunting (cf. דָּהַר, Nah. 3:2). The repetition of the word expresses the
continuance or incessant duration of the same thing (see *Ewald,* § 313,
*a.*). אַבִּירִים, strong ones, are not the horses, but the warriors in
the war-chariots. The suffix refers to סוּס, which is used collectively.
The mighty ones on horses are not, however, merely the Canaanitish
princes, such as Sisera, as *Ewald* maintains, but the warriors
generally who hunted away upon their war-chariots.

**Judges 5:23.** The enemy, or at all events Sisera, might have been
destroyed in his flight by the inhabitants of Meroz; but they did not
come to the help of the Israelites, and brought down the curse of God
upon themselves in consequence. That this is the thought of v. 23 is
evident from the context, and more especially from the blessing
pronounced upon Jael in v. 24. The situation of Meroz, which is not
mentioned again, cannot be determined with certainty *Wilson* and *v.
Raumer* imagine that it may be *Kefr Musr* on the south of Tabor, the
situation of which at all events is more suitable than *Marussus,* which
was an hour and a half to the north of Beisan, and which *Rabbi Schwarz*
supposed to be Meroz (see *V. de Velde,* Mem. p. 334). The curse upon
the inhabitants of this place is described as a word or command of the
angel of the Lord, inasmuch as it was the angel of the Lord who fought
for Israel at Megiddo, as the revealer of the invisible God, and smote
the Canaanites. Deborah heard from him the words of the curse upon the
inhabitants of Meroz, because they did not come to help Jehovah when He
was fighting with and for the Israelites. *“Among the heroes,”* or
mighty men, i.e., associating with the warriors of Israel.

**Judges 5:24.** Jael behaved altogether differently, although she was
not an Israelite, but a woman of the tribe of the Kenites, which was
only allied with Israel (see Judges 4:11, 17ff.). For her heroic deed
she was to be blessed before women (מִן as in Gen. 3:14, literally
removed away from women). The *“women in the tent”* are dwellers in
tents, or shepherdesses. This heroic act is poetically commemorated in
the strophe which follows in vv. 25–27.

25 He asked water, she gave him milk;

She handed him cream in the dish of nobles.

26 She stretched out her hand to the plug,

And her right hand to the workmen’s hammer,

And hammered Sisera, broke his head,

And dashed in pieces and pierced his temples.

27 Between her feet he bowed, he fell, he lay down:

Between her feet he bowed, he fell:

Where he bowed, there he fell down dead.

**Judges 5:25.** Assuming that the fact itself is well known, Deborah
does not think it necessary to mention Sisera’s name in v. 25. חֶמְאָה,
which generally signifies thick curdled milk, is used here as synonymous
with חָלָב, in the sense of good superior milk. סֵפֶל is only used here
and in Judges 6:38, and signifies a bowl or vessel for holding liquids
(see *Arab., Chald,* and *Talm.;* also *Bochart,* Hieroz, i. pp. 625ff.,
ed. *Ros.*). The dish of nobles is a fine costly bowl, such as they are
accustomed to hand to noble guests. The whole verse is simply intended
to express the thought, that Jael had given to her guest Sisera a
friendly reception, and treated him honourably and hospitably, simply in
order to make him feel secure.

**Judges 5:26.** *“Her hand,”* i.e., the left hand, as is shown by the
antithesis, “her right hand,” which follows. On the form תִּשְׁלַחְנָה,
the third pers. fem. sing. with נָה attached, to distinguish it the more
clearly from the second pers., see the remarks on Ex. 1:10. הַלְמוּת
עֲמֵלִים, *hammer* or *mallet of the hard workers,* is a large heavy
hammer. For the purpose of depicting the boldness and greatness of the
deed, the words are crowded together in the second hemistich: הָלַם, to
hammer, or smite with the hammer; מָחַק, ἁπ. λεγ., to smite in pieces,
smite through; מָחַץ, to smite or dash in pieces; חָלַף, to pierce or
bore through. The heaping up of the words in v. 27 answers the same
purpose. They do not “express the delight of a satisfied thirst for
revenge,” but simply bring out the thought that Sisera, who was for
years the terror of Israel, was now struck dead with a single blow.
בַּאֲשֶׁר כָּרַע, at the place where he bowed, there he fell שָׁדוּד,
overpowered and destroyed. In conclusion, the singer refers once more in
the last strophe (vv. 28–30) to the mother of Sisera, as she waited
impatiently for the return of her son, and foreboded his death, whilst
the prudent princesses who surrounded her sought to cheer her with the
prospect of a rich arrival of booty.

28 Through the window there looks out and cries aloud

The mother of Sisera, through the lattice work,

Why does his chariot delay its coming?

Why tarry the steps of his team?

29 The wise of her princesses reply:

—But she repeats her words to herself—

30 Surely they are finding and sharing booty:

A maiden, two maidens to the head of a man,

Booty of variegated cloths for Sisera:

Booty of variegated cloths, garments worked in divers colours,

A variegated cloth, two garments worked in divers colours for his neck
as booty.

**Judges 5:28.** Sisera’s mother looks out with impatience for the
return of her son, and cries aloud out of the window, Why is he never
coming?—foreboding the disastrous result of the war. תְּיַבֵּב, ἁπ.
λεγ., signifies to cry; in Aramaean it is used for הֵרִיעַ and רִנֵּן,
to denote a loud joyful cry; here it evidently signifies a loud cry of
anxiety. For the repeated question, Why does his chariot delay its
coming? is evidently expressive of anxiety and alarm. The form אֶחֱרוּ,
*perf. Piel for* אִחֲרוּ, may be attributed to the influence of the
aleph, which favours the seghol sound, like יֶחֱמוּ in Gen. 30:39. The
combination of פַּעֲמֵי מַרְכְּבֹותָיו, “steps of his chariots,” cannot
be explained, as it is by *Bertheau,* on the ground that the word פעמי,
as a general expression for intermittent movement, might also be applied
to the jerking of the wheels in rolling, but simply on the supposition
that מַרְכָּבֹות, as a synonym for רֶכֶב, is used for the horses yoked
to the chariot in the sense of team, like רֶכֶב in 2 Sam. 8:4; 10:18,
etc.

**Judges 5:29.** The princesses in attendance upon Sisera’s mother
sought to console her with the remark, that Sisera would have to gather
together rich booty, and that his return was delayed in consequence. In
the expression “the wisest of her princesses” (see *Ges.* § 119, 2), the
irony is very obvious, as the reality put all their wise conjectures to
shame. תַּעֲנֶנָּה, third pers. plur. fem. for תַּעֲנֶינָה. The second
hemistich of v. 29 contains a clause inserted as a parenthesis. אַף־הִיא
is adversative: *“but she;”* אַף is only an emphatic copula; the
antithesis lies in the emphatic change of subject indicated by הִיא.
הֵשִׁיב אֲמָרֶיהָ, *lit.* to bring back her words, i.e., to repeat. לָהּ
is used in a reflective sense, “to herself.” The meaning is: But
Sisera’s mother did not allow herself to be quieted by the words of her
wise princesses; on the contrary, she kept repeating the anxious
question, Why does Sisera delay his coming? In v. 30 there follows the
answer of the wise princesses. They imagine that Sisera has been
detained by the large amount of booty which has to be divided. הֲלֹא,
*nonne,* is he not, in the sense of lively certainty. They will
certainly discover rich booty, and divide it. רַחַם, *uterus,* for
*puella. “A girl* (or indeed probably) *two girls to the head of the
man,”* i.e., for each man. צְבָעִים, *coloured things,* cloths or
clothes. רִקְמָה, *worked stuff,* or garments worked in divers colours
(see the remarks on Ex. 26:36), is attached without the *vav cop.* to
צְבָעִים, and is also dependent upon שְׁלַל. The closing words,
לְצַוְּארֵי שָׁלָל, *“for the necks,”* or (as the plural is also
frequently used to signify a single neck, e.g., Gen. 27:16; 45:14) *“for
the neck of the booty,”* do not give any appropriate sense, as שָׁלָל
neither signifies animals taken as booty nor the taker of booty. The
idea, however, that שָׁלָל is used for אִישׁ שָׁלָל, like הֵלֶךְ in 2
Sam. 12:4 for אִישׁ הֵלֶךְ, *viator,* and חֶתֶף in Prov. 23:28 for אִישׁ
חֶתֶף, seems inadmissible, since שָׁלָל has just before been used three
times in its literal sense. There is just the same objection to the
application of שָׁלָל to animals taken as booty, not to mention the fact
that they would hardly have thought of having valuable clothes upon the
necks of animals taken as booty. Consequently the only explanation that
remains, is either to alter לְצַוְּארֵי into לְצַוָּארֹו or
לְצַוָּארָיו, or else to change שָׁלָל into שֵׁגָל, the royal spouse. In
the former case, שָׁלָל would have to be taken as in apposition to צֶבַע
רִקְמָתַיִם: a variegated cloth, two worked in divers colours for his
(Sisera’s) neck as booty, as the LXX have rendered it (τῷ τραχήλῳ αὐτοῦ
σκῦλα). *Ewald* and *Bertheau* decide in favour of the second
alteration, and defend it on the ground that שׁלל might easily find its
way into the text as a copyist’s error for שׁגל, on account of שׁלל
having been already written three times before, and that we cannot
dispense with some such word as שֵׁגָל here, since the repetition of
שָׁלָל three times, and the threefold use of לְ, evidently show that
there were three different kinds of people among whom the booty was to
be distributed; and also that it was only a fitting thing that Sisera
should set apart one portion of the booty to adorn the neck of his wife,
and that the wisest of the noble ladies, when mentioning the booty,
should not forget themselves.

31a So shall all Thine enemies perish, O Jehovah!

But let those who love Him be like the rising of the sun in its
strength.

**Judges 5:31.** This forms the conclusion of the song. כֵּן, *so,*
refers to the whole of the song: just in the same manner as Sisera and
his warriors. The rising of the sun in its strength is a striking image
of the exaltation of Israel to a more and more glorious unfolding of its
destiny, which Deborah anticipated as the result of this victory.

