---
title: "Demons, Intro. to Study of"
pdf: "demons.pdf"
description: "Outline of Bible references to demons; descriptions of identity and functions"
template: topic.jade
---


**Demons 4**

**Demons**

Demons are fallen angels under the command of Satan, those who are still
free after the Genesis 6 affair. Satan is called the prince, or ruler,
of all demons in Matthew 9:34; 12:24; Mark 3:22; Luke 11:15. Demons are
also called the ministers or ambassadors of Satan, Luke 4:35; 9:1, 42;
John 10:21. Satan is brilliant, an administrative genius. He has an
excellent organization, mentioned in Eph. 6:10-12 (Please read) The
Bible also makes a distinction between demon possession and demon
influence.

Demon possession occurs when an actual fallen angel, a demon, enters and
occupies the body of an unbeliever. Demons cannot enter the bodies of
Christian believers because the Christian’s body is the temple of the
Holy Spirit. Inviting demons can be accomplished in a number of ways.

• Through idolatry of Satan’s communion table, 1 Cor. 10:19-21.

-   Through drug addiction, called in Greek,  (farmakeia), the
    use of drugs, potions, or spells; poisoning, witchcraft, sorcery.
    Gal. 5:20 “witch-craft, sorcery”, cf. also Rev. 9:21; 18:23.

-   Through religious backsliding, religious sensitivity activities such
    as dabbling in the occult, consulting mediums and necromancy. cf.
    Isa. 8:19.

Demon influence is the residence of evil in the soul; which can be an
unbeliever (Rom. 1:23) or a believer. This is the method that Satan uses
to trap and neutralize the believer, by introducing, if allowed, the
doctrine of evil inside the soul of the born again believer. Demon
influence in the believer comes about in the later stages of negativity
or backsliding.

The first stage of backsliding is some kind of reaction to life whether
discouragement, disillusion, disenchantment, boredom, self pity,
loneliness, frustration, instability, pride complex and various sins of
arrogance, revenge tactics, reaction to contemporary events or social
pressures, etc. Whatever causes it, the reaction stage makes one very
vulnerable to the attacks of Satan. This is not the entrance into demon
influence, at this point, but merely vulnerability to it.

The second stage of backsliding is the frantic search for happiness
following the trends of the sin nature towards asceticism or
lasciviousness. This also increases vulnerability, especially as one
moves away from the protection of doctrine and grace provision.

The third stage intensifies the reaction stage, but still has only the
potentiality, not the actuality, of demon influence. It is at the fourth
stage of backsliding, in which the soul is in revolt emotionally, where
the possibility of demon influence enters. Doctrinal content is located
in the mentality of the soul including standards, conscience, frame of
reference, memory center, vocabulary, doctrinal storage under
edification, and the area of applied doctrine resulting in production of
divine good. It is the lack of doctrinal content which is the primary
factor in vulnerability to demon influence.

The soul also has its area of response to outside influences, centered
in the emotions of the soul. Emotion has no doctrinal content, no
character of its own, no spiritual content, no ability to think or
rationalize, or even to use common sense. It is designed to respond; it
is not designed to lead or initiate anything. The tongues movement is an
illustration of the soul’s emotions being led about by falsehood.
Sometimes believers in the tongues movement are under demon influence.
Sometimes unbelievers are actually demon possessed.

The thing that opens the door for demon influence in the life of the
believer is negative volition toward the word of God. The believer says
no to doctrine and opens up a vacuum in his soul. Whatever evil is in
the neighborhood will be picked up as false teaching, TV, newspaper,
etc.

Regardless of what causes the negative attitude, the effect is the same.
It may be antagonism or a negative attitude or personality conflict with
the pastor, or with other members of the congregation. It may be apathy
or indifference to teaching. It may be failure to use a grace provision,
faith rest, or inability to handle prosperity, slavery to the details of
life. Whatever it is, negative volition opens up the emptiness of the
soul.

As a result of evil in the soul, there is demon influence. There is the
infiltration of the doctrines of Satan into the soul of the backslidden
person (believer or unbeliever). Here, the believer is worshipping and
serving the creature rather than the creator.

There are two systems for demon possession of the unbeliever. The first
is the unlawful isolation of dormant facilities. The body is brought
under the control of the soul and the soul has been given to Satan. It
is like a conversion in reverse. Séances, or the ceremony called the
Satanic mass, are means by which this is accomplished. This person
becomes a disembodied spirit. All activities of supernaturalism may be
attributed to this; mental telepathy, spiritism and out of body
experiences.

The second system is passive submission to demons. This can be
accomplished through idolatry, through drugs or other means. In the
ancient world, the various oracles used this means in attempting to
predict the outcome of events. The mephitic vapors of the oracle of
Delphi, which was some form of narcotic gas. Another example is the
Hindu soma mysteries and the various sutras of Indian religions. There
are also various systems of mesmerism or hypnotism, whether induced by
one’s self or another person, such as whirling dervishes, or unbelievers
involved in the tongues movement.

Demonism is directly related to idolatry and thus to human sacrifice.
Sacrifices to demons were prohibited by law in Lev. 17:7, “And they
shall no longer sacrifice to the goat demon or satyr with which they
shall play the harlot. This will be a permanent law in every
generation.” Or in Deut. 32:17, “They sacrifice to demons, not gods, new
things which came lately which your ancestors did not fear.” Heathen
nations worship demons, according to Ps. 96:5, “For all the gods of the
peoples are idols . . . (daimonia in LXX).” It was thoroughly understood
that idolatry meant demons. Capital punishment by stoning was the
penalty for witchcraft, demonism, etc.

The judgment against Egypt concerning the death of the first born was
also a judgment against the demons in Egypt. Ex. 12:12, “For I will pass
through the land of Egypt this night, and will smite all the first born
in the land of Egypt, both man and beast; and against all the demons of
Egypt I will execute judgment; I am Jehovah.” Num. 33:4, “While the
Egyptians were burying all their firstborn whom the Lord had struck down
among them, the Lord had also executed judgment against their demons.”

Demons are powerless to change the course of history. Isa. 19:3, “Then
the spirit of the Egyptians will become demoralized within them; also, I
will frustrate their strategy, so that they will resort to idle demons
and to the ghosts of the dead and to mediums and to spiritists.”
Demonism is always subject to the justice of God and is always judged in
its various forms.

The reason why the Canaanites were removed from the land is that they
practiced demonism. Deut. 18:9-12 (Read). In the reign of King Manasseh,
evil is associated with demonism, 2 Kings 21:2–16. Demonism brings the
discipline of total destruction to a nation, Isa. 47; Jer. 27:6-10; Isa.
29:4.

Satan and demons are often used by God in the administration of the sin
unto death to backslidden believers. One example is Hymenaeus and
Alexander, I Tim. 1:19, 20. The believer committing incest in 1 Cor. 5:5
was turned over to Satan, but it was so painful that he repented.

Satan’s power of death is mentioned in four categories. He has the power
of death, Heb. 2:14, 15; 1 John 3:8. He killed Job’s children, Job 1:12,
18, 19. He motivated Cain to murder Abel, 1 John 3:12.

Satan is a source of disease. Satan produced the illness in Job, Job
2:6, 7. Satan uses demons to produce disease in human beings. There is
therefore the principle of demon induced illness, Matt. 12:22; Luke
13:16; Acts 10:38. Certain mental diseases, and illness which are
related to abnormal behavior, may be demon induced. Dumbness and
deafness, Mark 9:17; Luke 11:14. Certain forms of epilepsy, Mark 1:26;
9:20; Luke 4:35. Satan is the source of at least ten different types of
abnormal behavior which are mentioned in the Bible.

Convulsions, Mark 1:26

Violence, Matt. 8:28

Abnormal strength, Mark 5:4

Raving and self mutilation, Mark 5:5

Foaming at the mouth, Mark 9:20

Public nakedness, Luke 8:27

Living among corpses, Mark 5:3

A type of grinding of the teeth, Mark 9:18

Falling into fires and throwing oneself into dangerous things, Matt.
17:15

Satan also heals. He heals by the withdrawal of demons and establishes
the credentials for some of his evangelists. In Acts 19:11, 12
legitimate healing by God was used to establish apostolic authority. On
the other hand, healing was used by Satan in a similar way, 2 Thess.
2:9; Rev. 16:14.

Satan wanted to punish Peter by using demons. Luke 22:31, 32 (Read).
Peter had denied Christ, and Satan had the audacity to suggest how the
justice of God should function toward Peter. Of course the Lord refused
this.

I Tim. 3:6, 7 (Read)– Satan is used as a warning for discipline.

The verses in Psalm 109 talk about David asking for God’s judgment on
one of his enemies who David strongly curses. This wording should be
deleted.

