---
title: "Ebionites"
pdf: "ebionites.pdf"
description: "A Jewish-Christian heretical sect flourishing in the 2nd, 3rd, and 4th cents A.D."
tableOfContents: false
template: topic.jade
---

From International Standard Bible Encyclopedia

**Ebionites -**A Jewish-Christian heretical sect flourishing in the 2nd,
3rd, and 4th cents a.d.

**I. Origin**

The name Ebionite seems to be derived from Heb *˒eḇyôn*, “poor.” It
first appears in the writings of Irenaeus (*Adv. haer.* i.26.2), who
gave no explanation of the term. Other writers in antiquity, however,
variously explained why the Ebionites were so called. Origen in his
commentary on Mt. 12:2 said that their name came from the poverty of
their faith in Jesus. In *Contra Celsum* ii.1 he stated that they were
named for the poverty of their interpretation of the law. Eusebius
reiterated the sentiment of Origen by saying that “from these practices
[observing the law, rejecting Paul, and using exclusively the Gospel
according to the Hebrews] they have obtained their name, for their name
means ‘poor’ in Hebrew” (*HE* iii.27.2). He also said they got their
name from the first Christians because they held such poor and lowly
opinions of Jesus Christ. None of these polemical explanations of the
origin of the name is taken seriously by scholars today.

About two hundred years after Irenaeus’s first mention of the Ebionites
by name, Epiphanius wrote extensively of them in his *Panarion*
(*Haer.*). He derived their name from Ebion, the alleged founder of the
sect, and traced their history back to the period immediately following
the destruction of Jerusalem in a.d. 70. This explanation, too, is
highly unlikely, although there is some evidence that there was a
historical person named Ebion. Some scholars think that certain
fragments of *Doctrina patrum de incarnatione Verbi* are by him.

A. Fitzmyer suggested that the name *Ebionaioi* grew out of the
practice of referring to the first Christians in Jerusalem as “the
poor,” especially after the destruction of the city in a.d. 70. “At some
time during the first two centuries … this designation was restricted to
those who lived in Palestine and Syria, and who continued to observe the
Mosaic Law. It seems likely that the original use of the word was in no
way connected with a heretical sect” (Fitzmyer, p. 210). This group of
Jewish Christians is usually associated with James the brother of Jesus,
the head of the Jerusalem church. “It is not unlikely that remnants of
this group, after the destruction of Jerusalem, developed into the
Ebionite sect, acquiring heterodox notions in time from other sources,
such as Cerinthus and the Elchesaites” (p. 210). How long the Ebionites
existed before Irenaeus’ explicit mention of them is not known, but that
there was such a group by his time is clear. He calls them heretical
(*Adv. haer.* i.26.2) and classifies them among the Gnostics.

L. E. Keck proposed a similar explanation of their origin: “After the
refugees [either from the Jewish War of a.d. 66–70 or the Hadrianic War
in a.d. 135] from Jerusalem found themselves destitute, they cherished
more than ever the words of Jesus about the poor and the threat of
possessions, and so made of their poverty a virtue and probably named
themselves ‘the Poor.’ In the region where they now lived, they came
into contact with dualistic and syncretistic movements which provided a
cosmological rationale of their poverty and intensified certain elements
of their theology in general. The link with the practice of the
primitive church in sharing wealth came much later as an apologetic
device and cannot be taken at face value” (ZNW, 57 [1966], 65f).

**II. Sources**

**A. Gospel of the Ebionites**  This is an abridged and falsified Gospel
of Matthew known only through the accounts and quotations of Epiphanius.
Since it presupposes the Synoptics, the earliest it could have been
written is the 2nd century. The Gospel begins not with the Nativity
narrative but with the appearance of John the Baptist. This is followed
by the Call of the Disciples and the Baptism of Jesus. It also contains
parallels to Mt. 5:17; 12:46–50; 26:17ff; and Lk. 22:15 (SQE).
Epiphanius said that it included the story of the Last Supper, the
Passion of Christ, and the Resurrection, but we have no details.

**B. Pseudo-Clementine Literature**  Apart from the Ebionite Gospel, there
is little agreement among scholars about authentic Ebionite sources. The
nineteenth-century Tübingen scholars isolated a source — *Kerygmata
Petrou* (Sermons of Peter)—in the Pseudo-Clementine literature and
identified it as Ebionite. This reconstruction has been followed by more
recent scholars. H. J. Schoeps bases his reconstruction of the history
and theology of early Jewish Christianity on the *Kerygmata Petrou*, and
both O. Cullmann and J. A. Fitzmyer use the *Kerygmata* as a primary
source to compare the beliefs of the Qumrân community with those of the
Ebionites. Considerable doubt exists, however, about the genuineness of
the *Kerygmata Petrou* as an Ebionite source. Keck points out that even
though the Pseudo-Clementine literature has been subjected for more than
a hundred years to discussion and analysis, “there is still little
agreement on the elemental point of whether or not there is any relation
whatsoever between this pot-pourri of tradition and the Ebionites” (p.
60).

**III. Theology**
Origen was the first to distinguish between two types of Ebionites
theologically: those who believed in the Virgin Birth and those who
rejected it (*Contra Celsum* v 61). Eusebius also distinguished between
two groups, describing them as follows (*HE* iii.27):

They held him [Christ] to be a plain and ordinary man who had achieved
righteousness merely by the progress of his character and had been born
naturally from Mary and her husband. They insisted on the complete
observation of the Law, and did not think that they would be saved by
faith in Christ alone and by a life in accordance with it. But there
were others besides these who have the same name. These escaped the
absurd folly of the first mentioned, and did not deny that the Lord was
born of a Virgin and the Holy Spirit, but nevertheless agreed with them
in not confessing his pre-existence as God, being the Logos and Wisdom.
Thus they shared in the impiety of the former class, especially in that
they were equally zealous to insist on the literal observance of the
Law. They thought that the letters of the Apostle ought to be wholly
rejected and called him an apostate from the Law. They used only the
Gospel called according to the Hebrews and made little account of the
rest. Like the former they used to observe the sabbath and the rest of
the Jewish ceremonial, but on Sundays celebrated rites like ours in
commemoration of the Saviour’s resurrection. Epiphanius likewise
differentiated between a more orthodox group (those who believed in the
Virgin Birth) and a more heterodox group. The former he called Nazoreans
and the latter Ebionites (*Haer.* 29f). The Ebionites, he said, were
influenced by the Elchasaites, an early heretical group with certain
Gnostic ideas. It is also possible that the Ebionites came under the
influence of the Essenes.

Although strict observance of the law was enjoined, not all of the law
of Moses was accepted as valid. They held that the true law had been
adulterated by the addition of certain falsehoods, post-Mosaic in
origin. These had to be purged, because they contained doctrines that
were actually inimical to Moses’ teaching. By means of this approach to
the Pentateuch the Ebionites were able to eliminate concepts of God
contrary to their own. In the *Pseudo-Clementines* (Homily 2.52) the
apostle says, “Neither was Adam a transgressor, who was fashioned by the
hands of God; nor was Noah drunken, who was found righteous above all
the world; nor did Abraham live with three wives at once, who, on
account of his sobriety, was thought worthy of a numerous posterity; nor
did Jacob associate with four — of whom two were sisters — who was the
father of the ten tribes, and who intimated the coming of the presence
of our Master; nor was Moses a murderer, nor did he learn to judge from
an idolatrous priest … .” Jesus was for them the great reformer of the
law, whereas Paul was its distorter.

The Ebionites also believed that the grace of baptism put an end to all
sacrifices. The destruction of the temple was brought about by God
because of the Jews’ refusal to discontinue the temple sacrificial
system. The priesthood, too, was considered no longer valid, since
sacrifices were at an end.

Christianity was for them not a religion of salvation. Jesus came not to
save but to teach. He stood in a direct line with the great prophets —
prophetism climaxed in Him. He came after Adam and Moses to reform and
purify Judaism.

Ebionism’s most important deviations from orthodox Christianity were in
the realm of Christology. Although, as seen from the above quotations
from Origen and statements in Epiphanius, there was no unanimity among
them in their christological beliefs, they generally rejected the
orthodox doctrine of the Virgin Birth. They also denied the Incarnation.
Although they believed in Jesus (this distinguished them from the
orthodox Jews), they regarded Him simply as a man chosen by God, who at
His baptism received a power from God. It is generally believed that the
christological tenets of the Ebionites showed Cerinthian influence.

**IV. Ebionites and Qumrân**

Since the discovery of the Dead Sea Scrolls, vigorous discussions have
been carried on about the relationship of the Ebionites to the people of
the Scrolls. J. L. Teicher maintained that the Qumrân sect was Ebionite,
that Christ was the “Teacher of Righteousness,” and the apostle Paul was
the “Man of Lies.” Teicher’s theory faces several difficulties, the most
telling of which are: (1) the Ebionites appear too late to be identified
with the Qumrân sect (the earliest mention of the Ebionites is ca a.d.
175); and (2) the religious background of the Ebionites, though
heretical, is definitely Christian, whereas that of the people of Qumrân
is pre-Christian and oriented to the OT, not the NT.

Although Cullmann did not identify the Qumrân sect with the Ebionites,
he argued for a connection between the two: what was left of the Qumrân
sect (which he identified with the Essenes) went over to the Ebionites.
This theory, of course, would necessitate the conversion of the Essenes
to Christianity. While this is not impossible, there seems to be little
evidence to support it.

Fitzmyer, after a careful comparison of the theological beliefs and
practices of the two groups, found too great a divergence between them
to accept either Teicher’s or Cullmann’s theories. He concluded: “It
seems that the most we can say is that the sect of Qumran influenced the
Ebionites in many ways; Essene tenets and practices were undoubtedly
adopted or adapted into the Ebionite way of life. To try to state more
than this is to overstep the limits set by the evidence we have at our
disposal” (p. 231). This appears to be a more tenable view of the
relationship between Qumrân and the Ebionites.

***Bibliography.***— O. Cullmann, “Die neuentdeckten Qumrantexte und das
Judenchristentum der Pseudo-klementinen,” in NT *Studien für Rudolf
Bultmann* (BZNW, 21, 1954), 35–51; “Significance of the Qumran Texts for
Research into the Beginnings of Christianity,” in K. Stendahl, ed, *The
Scrolls and the NT* (1957), pp. 18–32; J. A. Fitzmyer, “The Qumran
Scrolls, the Ebionites and their Literature,” in Stendahl, pp. 208–231
(= *Theological Studies*, 16 [1955], 335–372); H-S, I, 153–58; F. J. A.
Hort, *Judaistic Christianity* (1898); L. E. Keck, ZNW, 57 (1966),
54–78; H. J. Schoeps, *Theologie and Geschichte des Judenchristentums*
(1949); JTS, 4 (1953), 223ff; J. L. Teicher, JJS, 2 (1951), 67–99.

W. W. Wessel

