---
title: "Ezra"
pdf: "ezra.pdf"
description: "Ezra returned to Jerusalem with a group of repatriates and others in the seventh year of Artaxerxes."
template: lesson.jade
---


**Ezra**

From International Standard Bible Encyclopedia

**Ezra**[Heb *˓ezrâ* (1 Ch. 4:17)].

**1.** A priest who returned from Babylonia with Zerubbabel (Neh. 12:1,
13). In Neh. 10:2 (MT 3) he is called Azariah.

**2.** A member of the tribe of Judah and father of Jether and three
other sons (1 Ch. 4:17).

**3.** The author of the memoirs attributed to him in the canonical
books of Ezra and Nehemiah (Ezr. 7–10; Neh. 8–10). His credentials are
inherent in his genealogy (Ezr. 7:1–6), which traces his descent from
Aaron, the first high priest of Israel. The genealogy is shortened by
comparison with the list in 1 Ch. 6:4–14 (MT 5:30–40), six names being
omitted in Ezr. 7:2–7 between Azariah and Meraioth, and one between
Shallum and Ahitub. Ezra was a descendant of Seraiah, who was killed by
Nebuchadrezzar at Riblah (2 K. 25:18–21), and whose son Jehozadak was
the high priest taken in captivity to Babylonia (1 Ch. 6:14f [MT
5:40f]). The omission of Jehozadak’s name from Ezra’s genealogy might
indicate his descent from a younger brother who was not a high priest.

In Jewish tradition Ezra was uniformly described as a “scribe” who was
especially versed in the Torah. In his letter of instruction (Ezr. 7:6,
11), Artaxerxes designated him as “the scribe,” indicating that he held
a high position in the administration of the royal court. Ezra returned
to Jerusalem with a group of repatriates and others in the seventh year
of Artaxerxes, and depending upon whether the individual named was
Artaxerxes I or Artaxerxes II, this would be either 458 b.c. or 397 b.c.
(*see* Chronology of the OT VI). Ezra had requested and received
permission (Ezr. 7:11–26) to visit the returned exiles in an official
capacity, and thus was acting as a crown commissioner. He received a
grant from the royal treasury as well as freewill offerings from Jews
living in Babylonia, and those he took to Palestine along with vessels
for the service of the Lord’s house. The royal decree afforded Ezra
administrative privileges backed by civil authority.

When he arrived in Jerusalem he began his tour of inspection. He was
shocked immediately to discover that the priests and Levites had
intermarried with local pagan women, and that the civil leaders had been
prominent in this activity also. He lamented and confessed the sin
publicly, and in this act of contrition the people ultimately joined. As
a result, the offenders agreed for the most part to divorce their pagan
wives. At the Feast of Tabernacles (Neh. 7:73–8:12) Ezra read the “book
of the law of Moses” and expounded it to the people, persuading the
assembly to abide by its provisions. Consequently, mixed marriages were
widely renounced, and promises were made to observe the sabbath and the
sabbatical year. In addition, the people undertook to meet the
administrative needs of the temple. Subsequent to this, Ezra apparently
returned to Persia to report to the king; there are no further records
of his life.

The Talmud enshrined various traditions regarding Ezra, one of which
identified him with the prophet Malachi (TB *Megillah* 15a; Targum on
Mal. 1:1). Exaggerated claims about his personality and role included
the statement that he would have received the revealed Torah of God had
Moses never existed (Tosefta *Sanhedrin* 4.7).

R. K. Harrison

