---
title: "Faith-Rest"
pdf: "faithrest.pdf"
description: "Faith-Rest -  The practice of enjoying the peace of God. How to claim promises; how to be stable and relaxed; how to enjoy happiness that doesn't depend on people, circumstances or things."
template: lesson.jade
---


**Faith-Rest12**

**Faith-Rest**

Knowing and Applying the Promises of God

Introduction

One of the consistent features of the Christian life is testing. We live
in a fallen world, in an imperfect society, among people whose way of
life is directed by Satan and their own sin natures. We cannot avoid the
friction, conflict or confrontation that results from this. We face
daily disasters, small and great, which are brought on us suddenly by
nature, by the ignorance or deliberate actions of other people, or even
by our own mistakes and sins.

Faith-Rest is God’s plan for Christians who are going through testing,
who are having problems. Faith-Rest is the means by which Christians can
have joy, a happiness in this life which does not depend on people,
circumstances, or things. Think of it! God promises that you can have
the peace and joy of God, in spite of what’s happening in your life, in
spite of the problems and testing that you are going through.

Your testing may be mild or severe, or anything in between. There are
family troubles, money problems, social conflicts, problems on the job
and the list is endless. The charge of the elephant, or the charge of
the mosquito, will come at any time, and usually without warning.

But you can always depend upon God’s immediate and constant provision
for you in your time of testing. He knows all about our tests before
they occur and has made provisions in advance to meet our needs. (Eph.
1:3,4)

**1 Cor. 10:13, “No temptation has overtaken you but such as is common
to man; and God is faithful, who will not allow you to be tempted beyond
what you are able, but with the temptation will provide the way of
escape also, that you may be able to endure it.”**

Hebrews 4 tells us that the Israelite wilderness generation did not find
rest because they did not trust God to keep His promises after they left
Egypt. There is no reason we as believers of the church age have to make
the same mistake.

Whether the test is small or great, it is allowed by God to measure our
faith and our application of the things He has provided for us in this
life.

1 Peter 1:7 “That the trial of your faith, being much more precious that
of gold that perishes, though it be tried by fire, might be found unto
praise and honor and glory at the appearing of Jesus Christ.”

1 Peter 5:6,7 “Humble yourselves, therefore, under the mighty hand of
God, that he may exalt you in due time, casting all your care upon him;
for he cares for you.”

Definition of Faith-Rest

**Faith-Rest is the** process of understanding, believing, and applying
the doctrines and promises of God’s word in times of testing in the
Christian life.

The term Faith-Rest and its definition above, is taken from Hebrews
4:1,2 “Let us therefore fear lest, a promise being left us of entering
into His rest, any of you should seem to come short of it. For unto us
was the gospel preached, as well as unto them, but the word preached did
not profit them, not being mixed with faith in them that heard it.”

Read Hebrews 3 and 4 before continuing with this study.Faith-Rest is
designed to be used by the Christian throughout his lifetime, on a daily
basis, as a technique for maintaining peace and spiritual balance during
difficulties, problems, or disasters in life. Faith-Rest is one of the
Christian’s most important resources in making rapid progress toward
Christian maturity and the production of divine good in this life.

There are two reasons why Christians fail to grow and prosper in the
Christian life, and fail to profit from all the blessings, promises and
logistical provisions which God has put in place.

The most common reason for failure to enter into rest is a lack of
knowledge of God’s plan and the assets He has provided for us.
Christians who do not know what the word of God says will never know the
promises of God or the provisions He has made for testing.

The other reason for failure is seen in the children of Israel
wilderness generation. They heard the teaching but did not mix it with
faith, so they did not enter into the actual rest of the promised land.

Examples of Faith-Rest

In this section, there are several examples from the Bible in which the
people of God had ample information on which to base their faith in God.
Sometimes the people trusted God and prospered. Sometimes the people
showed a complete lack of trust in God and fell apart when the tests
came.

You will see in these Bible passages that the extent of a believer’s
spiritual maturity becomes obvious in hard times. It is easy to maintain
a facade when things are going well, when there is plenty of money, good
health and little to worry about. All Christians look and behave about
the same in good times. But when testing comes, those who have actually
failed to grow in Christ come apart at the seams, and fall back into
patterns of worry, blaming other people, and trying to solve their own
problems by worldly means.

The examples discussed here are:

-   Abraham, who first distrusted, then believed God, Genesis 15

-   The bitter water test at Marah, Exodus 15:22-27

-   The no food test and the first no water test at Meribah, Exodus
    16,17

-   The giant test, Numbers 13 and 14

-   The second no water test, Numbers 20:1-13

The Example of Abraham - Genesis 14 and 15

Genesis 14 has the account of Abraham’s great victory. After a victory
there is a tendency to let down, to be vulnerable, both in the physical
and spiritual realms. A football team coming off a win is harder to
motivate for the next game. A victorious army tends to become complacent
and underestimate the enemy. It is well to remember that Satan keeps
charging; and he is especially skilled at counter punching, at
exploiting any temporary weakness. Worry is one of Satan’s chief
weapons.

1 Peter 5:8,9 “Be sober, be vigilant, because your adversary, the devil,
like a roaring lion walks about, seeking whom he may devour; whom resist
steadfast in the faith, knowing that the same afflictions are
accomplished in your brethren that are in the world.”

Gen. 15:1 “After these things the word of the Lord came to Abram in a
vision, saying, “Fear not, Abram: I am thy shield, and thy exceedingly
great reward.””

Here is God’s promise of protection and an outpouring of grace
blessings. The Lord has solutions for Abraham based on grace provisions
which God had laid up for him from eternity past. That is, God’s plan
for Abraham is already set up and operational. It is merely a matter of
Abraham’s remembering God’s previous promises and believing them.

God says do not worry; do not be frightened. There is only one logical
thing for Abraham to do when the Lord is his shield, strength, and
reward which is to relax.

Deut. 31:6-8 “Be strong and of good courage, fear not, nor be afraid of
them (referring to the giants living in Canaan; for the Lord your God,
he it is who goes with you; he will not fail you, nor forsake you. And
Moses called to Joshua and said to him in the sight of all Israel, ’Be
strong and of good courage; for you must go with this people unto the
land which the Lord has sworn unto their fathers to give them, and you
shall cause them to inherit it. And the Lord, he it is who goes before
you; he will be with you, he will not fail you, neither forsake you;
fear not, neither be dismayed.”

Isa. 41:10-13 “Fear not, for I am with you. Be not dismayed, for I am
your God. I will strengthen you; yea, I will help you; yea, I will
uphold you with the right hand of my righteousness. Behold, all they
that were angered against you shall be ashamed and confounded, they
shall be as nothing, and they that strive with you shall perish. You
shall seek them, and shall not find them, even them that contended with
you; they that war against you shall be as nothing, and as a thing of
nought.’”

Who is the one making these promises? It is almighty God, the creator of
the universe! Every promise of God is backed up by His perfect character
and His perfect character. Our thinking about His promises can be
related to His divine attributes, for example:

**Sovereignty**: God in His designed Faith-Rest as part of His plan for
us.

**Righteousness**: God is perfect goodness, so any trial will be good
for us.

**Justice**: Guarantees that His plan for us is fair, that we will
always be treated justly.

**Love**: We know that every situation in life is governed by God’s love
for us.

**Eternal Life**: God is eternal and we have everlasting life with Him
through Christ’s work on the cross. God always plans with eternity in
view.

**Omniscience**: God knows about my trials or sufferings even before
they happen; and He has already planned what to do about them.

**Omnipresence**: God is always present and available to help.

**Omnipotence**: God is all powerful so He always has the capability to
carry out his promises and to provide help in time of need.

**Immutability**: God never changes in His attitude toward us, and all
of His characteristics remain the same, forever.

**Truth**: God never lies; therefore what He has promised, He will
perform (see Romans 4).

Abraham has had great victory, then he fails. He has started to worry,
to cave in. He still feels he has something to complain about. He has no
male heir, and if there is no male heir, the inheritance will go to
Eliezer.

**Gen. 15:2** “And Abram said, ‘Lord God, what will you give me, seeing
I go childless, and the heir of my house is this Eliezer of Damascus?’”

Worry is a sin, Rom. 14:23, “…whatsoever is not of faith is sin.” Worry
is, in fact, equivalent to blasphemy. Worry slanders God by saying that
His promises are lies or that God is not able to keep His promises. In
other words, the fearful person believes that God can not or will not
keep His promises.

Worry is the opposite of Faith-Rest. Faith-Rest is the answer to worry.

Abraham has two choices: (1) he can try to solve his own problems by
worrying, fretting, planning, being upset and angry, trying to scrounge
up answers, trying to work around things, etc., or (2) he can let God
solve the problems he cannot handle.

Gen. 15:3 “And Abram said, ‘Behold, you have given me no seed: and, lo,
one born in my house is my heir.’”

Abraham blames God for his troubles. Blaming others, especially blaming
God, is a sure sign of spiritual deterioration. A mature person takes
responsibility for his own actions. It is a trend in modern psychology
to find someone or something to blame for troubles, such as parents, the
environment, the community, politicians, employers, etc. This tendency
ignores every divine provision, every blessing, every law, and every
principle of suffering.

Gen. 15:4-6 “And, behold, the word of the Lord came unto him, saying,
‘This shall not be your heir, but he that shall come forth out of your
own loins shall be your heir.’ And he brought him forth abroad, and
said, ‘Look now toward heaven, and count the stars, if you can number
them.’ And he said to him, ‘So shall your seed be.’ And he believed in
the Lord; and He counted it to him for righteousness.”

Here God restates His promises of the Abrahamic covenant and gives
Abraham a dramatic illustration of what He means, by showing him the
stars. Finally, Abraham believes God. He has about fifteen more years to
wait before Isaac is born, but he is able to wait patiently and have
inner peace because he has laid his burden on the Lord.

The Bitter Water Test - Exodus 15

Have you ever had a wonderful Sunday attending church, worshipping the
Lord, enjoying the fellowship of believers, everything that make you
glad to be a Christian, only to see your whole attitude change at work
on Monday as your job seems to throw you into another world?

Read Exodus 14 and 15 of the Israelites escaping from Egypt account.
They saw God twenty-four hours a day in the cloud and in the fire. In
their terror of the Egyptians they prayed frantically to God to save
them, and saw the Red Sea open up, crossed on dry land, and watched the
Egyptian army being destroyed as the waters closed back over them.

And what a victory celebration they had. Read the great song of victory
they sang. “The Lord is my strength and my song…The Lord is a man of
war…Thy right hand, O Lord, has dashed in pieces the enemy…Who is like
thee, O Lord, glorious in holiness, fearful in praises, doing wonders…”
And on and on.

Three days later, on the march, they came to the bitter sea, Marah, and
…

Exo. 15:24,25 “And the people murmured against Moses, saying, What shall
we drink? And he cried unto the Lord; and the Lord showed him a tree,
which when he had cast into the waters, the waters were made sweet:
there he made for them a statute and an ordinance, and there He tested
them.”

As a nation, the Israelites were spiritually immature. They had no
spiritual stamina and no real understanding of who the Lord is or what
He could do. This is the first of many tests they would fail, tests
designed to demonstrate to them how helpless they were without God. As
you know, throughout their 40 years wandering in the wilderness, and in
spite of daily teaching from Moses, Aaron and Levites, in spite of
witnessing miracle after spectacular miracle, only a small percentage of
these people ever learned to rely completely on the Lord.

The No Food Test and First No Water Test of Exodus 16,17

Exodus 16 gives details of the no food test, also failed by the
Israelites, in which they murmured again against Moses, Aaron, and God.
In this case God provided manna for them. This chapter is a litany of
whining, complaining, and miserable behavior. And chapter 17 continues
the story.

There was no water at Rephidim and the people blamed Moses for bringing
them out of Egypt so that their children and cattle could die of thirst.
Their complaining was so vehement that Moses named the place Meribah
which means chiding.

Of course, the Lord provided water from the rock, at the same time
giving a beautiful picture of the gospel. Remember that God’s grace
depends on His character, not on our character or faithfulness. The
people received what they did not deserve.

The Giants Test of Numbers 13,14

Numbers 13 describes a reconnaissance patrol which was led by a high
ranking officer from each of the twelve tribes. Moses would not commit a
force of two million people into a land without sending out a patrol.
The patrol would spend forty days in enemy territory before returning to
Kadesh Barnea.

**Num. 13:1,2**. The people received directions from the Lord. Note the
promise, “…the land which I give unto the children of Israel…” The
Israelites were not being asked to move into the land on blind faith.
There is no such thing as blind faith. Faith is the best eyesight in the
world when it is based on the promises of God. Faith is the ability to
rest on God’s omniscience.

**Num. 13:3-16**. Caleb and Joshua are recognized as two of the great
men of history, men who know the wisdom and grace of God and are willing
to commit themselves to it. To them, the word of God was more real that
any situation they were to face. They were fully adjusted to their
circumstances, whether good or adverse.

**Num. 13:17-20**. Detailed instructions for the land reconnaissance are
described in these verses to the twelve Israelite spies. One thing
necessary for a successful mission is the right mental attitude. The
difference between courage and fearfulness is being emphasized here. The
difference is Faith-Rest! Caleb and Joshua believed the promises of God,
the other ten did not. Caleb and Joshua had courage, the other ten did
not.

When the spies returned, the camp was divided into two groups, a small
group of confident, courageous people who believed God, and a large
group of fearful people who were shaking in their boots. There were
giants in the land, and the majority were afraid of them, in spite of
the promises of God.

The Lord is greater than any giant in a Christian’s life. Greater is He
that is in you than he that is in the world. (I John 4:4) The Lord knew
in advance that there would be giants in Canaan, and He had prepared
everything ahead of time for them to occupy the land. Yet, in spite of
having met and failed)test after test, and having seen God perform many
wonderful miracles, they still lacked courage.

**Num. 13:21-27**. This is a complete confirmation of what the Lord said
would be the case in the land. And His promises had been repeated time
after time. Exo. 3:8,17; 13:5; 33:3.

Milk and honey is an idiom for a prosperous land. The only believers who
enjoy the provision of God are those who see and appropriate God’s
provisions by faith. We do not live by sight. We have provisions for
today, food, clothing and shelter. But what God provides for the soul
cannot be seen, except by faith. But the eyes of Faith-Rest are greater
than natural eyes.

**Num. 13:28-33**. There is no doubt that they are up against a
formidable enemy. The Hittites were one of the greatest nations in the
ancient world; they discovered iron and were the first to use iron
weapons. The Jebusites were very powerful warriors who had not been
conquered for several hundred years; their central fortification was a
city called Jerusalem. The Amalekites were craft idol and demon
worshippers and child sacrificers.

Caleb had seen God handle all of their problems time after time, but he
was not able to persuade the rest of the people. They were afraid of the
giants.

**Num. 14:16**. This verse explains the whole thing. The Lord could not
bring them into the land because (1) their attitude toward God was bad;
(2) their attitudes toward people was bad also called mental attitude
sins; and (3) they were negative toward God and His teaching.

**Num. 14:17, 18**. Lack of faith in God affects succeeding generations.
Parents do not teach their children and do not set the example for them
of following God’s way of life. The children follow the worldly ways of
their parents. Moses prays to God that somehow He will prevent this.

**Num. 14:19-23**. These verses provide great insight into how God’s
love and grace can be shown while not compromising His justice and
righteousness. He forgives the people for their lack of faith, but He
still forbids the majority from entering the promised land.

**Num. 14:24**. Caleb was different. He listened to the word of God
every day, and he maintained an attitude of faith that was in line with
the Biblical doctrine and promises of God he had learned. Therefore he
had a relaxed mental attitude and a good knowledge of how to function in
God’s plan.

**Num. 14:25-30**. A description of darkness in the soul. God calls this
people an evil congregation and pronounces the sin unto death on the
majority of the adult population.

The Second No Water Test is in Numbers 20

Historically, now, we are near the end of the forty years wandering
occasioned by the sins and unbelief of the previous generation. Most of
those who were adults thirty-nine years ago have died in the wilderness.
Now their children are adults and they have apparently learned nothing!
For here is a repetition of the no water test, in the same location and
virtually under the same circumstances as the first one.

**Num. 20:1**. Miriam died at this time and she was buried in Kadesh.
Her death is representative of those who were removed under the final
stage of divine discipline, the sin unto death. Now the new generation
faces the issue of Faith-Rest living.

**Num. 20:2**. “There was no water for the congregation…” God will
permit tests of all sorts, usually in the form of some disaster,
heartache, frustration, or pressure situation which could be classified
as a no water situation.

You can handle a no water situation in two ways. You can try to solve it
yourself, or you can put it into the Lord’s hands. The issue is what
takes place in the soul. Resting in God, claiming the promises, requires
categorical knowledge of the word of God and a proper attitude of faith
toward the Lord and His teaching.

No hopeless situation is really hopeless when viewed from the divine
viewpoint. A believer who has Bible principle applied in his life is
going to manifest many things, including a relaxed mental attitude, true
happiness and joy and a reliance on promises.

A no water situation is never a no water situation with God. He has
provided the water for every situation before the world was created. The
promises of God are never superimposed on the believer’s life. They are
an expression of His love, but God does not force His love upon us.

The believer who does not live in the word has mental sins, fears,
worry, anxiety, bitterness, etc. This is expressed through murmuring.
The believer with doctrine in the soul expresses his own love for God
through Faith-Rest.

**Num. 20:3**. “The people chose (meribah) with Moses…” As soon as
things go wrong, the sin natures begins to express the darkness in the
soul, bitterness, implacability, fear. This causes the people to murmur
against the authority which God has provided and they blame Moses and
Aaron for the whole thing.

These people are actually suicidal, an evidence of great inconsistency,
extreme emotional swings, and complete disorientation to life.

**Num. 20:4,5**. Note, this evil place that the congregation is
complaining about is exactly the same place where God had demonstrated
His love and grace before, by providing water! The believer who calls
grace evil has a badly scarred up soul. They have negative volition to
grace and the promises of God. In their self-consciousness they have
self-pity. Their mentality is dominated by mental attitude sins of
worry, bitterness, vindictiveness. Their emotions are unstable. In their
conscience they have strictly human viewpoint and standards.

They are thinking of the details of life,and they expect the details of
life to bring them happiness. Any believer who ignores the word of God
and looks to details of life for provision and happiness has had it! The
word of God points the believer toward God; human viewpoint points him
toward Egypt.

When a believer recalls something from his past, something pleasant,
instead of recalling he promises of God, he is looking back at Egypt. A
Christian who operates on grace principles can leave Egypt behind. He
will be confident and happy in any situation, because God is greater
than the most hopeless situation.

God demonstrates His love for us through adversity in a way that would
be impossible in heaven. Heaven is perfect environment, with no problems
of any kind.

Hebrews 3:7-9 “Wherefore, as the Holy Spirit says, today if you will
hear His voice, harden not your hearts, as in the provocation (meribah:
from the Hebrew of Psalm 95:8-11), in the day of trial in the
wilderness, when your fathers put me to the test, proved me, and say my
works forty years.”

To harden one’s heart means to have a habitual and willful unbelief in
God and His word.

God was faithful to the people for the whole forty years of wilderness
wandering, yet they failed the no water test.

The Benefits of Faith-Rest

As a Christian grows in grace, he will use Faith-Rest with increasing
skill and power, and it will support all of his divine viewpoint
thinking and production. Faith-Rest relies entirely on the continuous
ministry of the indwelling Holy Spirit, therefore the believer will
benefit from Faith-Rest only when he is in fellowship, walking in the
Spirit [Rom. 14:23].

Faith-Rest was the means of spirituality for believers in the Old
Testament. [See Hab. 2:4; Heb. 11; Rom. 4:17-25] One of the principle
passages relating to Faith-Rest is Hebrews 3 and 4, particularly the
section from 3:6 to 4:16. Please read this passage in your Bible before
proceeding.

Following are some principles of the Faith-Rest system:

-   Faith-Rest is from God, who is perfect. No human works or deeds can
    be added to this perfect divine provision.

-   To enter into God’s rest, the believer must cease from his deeds
    also called human good and enter into a rest in which he does no
    work. The Holy Spirit does the work, Hebrews 3:7 to 4:16.

-   Faith is required, not works. Faith implies the absence of human
    merit. The merit for Faith-Rest lies in the object of faith, God the
    Father and His word. The doctrines and promises of the word must be
    mixed with faith, Hebrews 4:1,2.

-   Faith-Rest produces a relaxed mental attitude and victory over
    mental attitude sins, Isa. 26:3,4; Rom. 5:5.

-   Faith-Rest is the basis for dynamics in prayer, Mt. 21:22; Mk.
    11:25.

-   Faith-Rest is a principle of victory in spiritual warfare, Hebrews
    11:6; 1 John 5:4,5.

-   Faith-Rest is a part of the Christian way of life in the church age,
    2 Cor. 5:7.

The extent to which Faith-Rest applies to every aspect of a believer’s
life can be seen in the more than 7,000 individual promises in the Bible
which can be claimed by the Christian in one way or another. See, for
example, 1 Pet. 5:7; Isa. 41:10; Ps. 4:8; 55:22; 56:3.

For Faith-Rest to function it is necessary for the Christian to take in
the word of God on a daily basis, so that he learns which promise
provisions have been made available. The Christian is continually filled
or controlled)by the Holy Spirit through confessing sin biblically. Use
of the word of God in this manner provides the following benefits:

-   Inner rest, the peace of God that passes all understanding.
    (Philippians 4:7)Happiness that does not depend on people,
    circumstances or things.

-   A relaxed mental attitude arising out of victory over sins of mental
    attitude.

-   The ability to have genuine personal love toward those close to you
    and genuine impersonal love toward others.

-   The desire to be occupied with Christ and to study more of God’s
    word.

-   Divine provision for every need.

The key to the success of the Faith-Rest system lies in the validity of
the object of our faith, the word of God. Therefore, every aspect of the
perfect character or essence of God the Father supports Faith-Rest.

How to Apply Faith-Rest

The objective of Bible teaching is the presentation of Bible doctrine
which the Christian can use in his daily life. People differ in their
abilities to retain and recall doctrines and promises when they are
needed.

You never know when you will be required to use a particular doctrine,
and you may be able to recall only a tiny amount of what you have heard
from the pastor teacher in the past. For this reason, you must take in
doctrine on a daily basis so that usable doctrine accumulates gradually
in small increments, line upon line and precept upon precept.

There must also be continuous repetition of important principles and
reinforcement in learning how various Bible principles interrelate.

As you study the Bible you will discover that a divine frame of
reference is being built in your soul by which you can receive,
understand, and apply further doctrinal teaching. Truth builds upon
truth. Isa. 28:10. You will see that God’s viewpoint is gradually
replacing your human viewpoint on many issues. You are building a set of
divine standards by which you will be able to exercise wisdom and
discernment and make correct decisions in life.

You will grow in spiritual maturity if you maintain continuous momentum
in the Christian way of life for an extended period of time. Your
personal intake of the word of God constitutes its own reward as you
benefits from living the truth.

In the faith application of the word of God, you will draw on your
accumulated resources of Bible teaching in order to cope with your
problems and take control of your own life. The word of God in your soul
makes you self sustaining, independent of anything in the world system,
and able to face life with courage and confidence as you fulfill God’s
plan for your life.

Faith-Rest is designed by God as a versatile technique for overcoming
problems in life. By faith you apply doctrine logically from the
resources in your soul, meanwhile you are resting in the promises of the
word of God.

The steps in the Faith-Rest technique are:

1.  Establish fellowship with God through the filling of the Holy Spirit
    which is done through personal confession of sin using the Biblical
    definition of sin.

2.  You may then recover a relaxed mental attitude by claiming promises
    from the word.

3.  As a means of calling up divine viewpoint thinking, concentrate on
    pertinent doctrines related to the issue at hand.

4.  Take control of the situation as you reach doctrinal conclusions.

An Example of Faith-Rest - Victory Over Fear

Because concentration on Bible truth is so important, your mental
attitude is a prime target of Satan’s attacks against the power of the
word of God. Mental attitude sins and doctrinal thought cannot coexist.
Everyone is susceptible to various combinations of events,
circumstances, or people who cause arrogance, bitterness, depression,
self-pity, worry and anger which block out God’s thoughts.

One of your most potent enemies, for example, is fear. Fear is a mental
attitude sin which shuts down thought and closes out divine viewpoint.
No matter how much doctrine is resident in your soul, none of it will
help if your mind is immobilized by fear.

It is not a sin to be scared, to be afraid of something that is
dangerous or which threatens to harm you. Sinful fear, though, is a
continuing morbid mental attitude in which you say, in effect, that God
cannot or will not protect you in time of danger.

Fear opposes the believer’s confidence and courage in the Christian way
of life, 1 John 4:18. It is not surprising to find that one of the
strategies most often used by Satan is that of causing believers to be
filled with fear.

To deal with fear, proceed as follows:

**Confess sin**. Fear is a sin. While confession will not conquer fear,
it must be the first step. The fear has caught you off guard and you
must quickly recover your mental poise and your ability to think and use
doctrine. Therefore, confession and restoration to fellowship is the
first requirement.

**Claim promises** Following confession of sin, recover a relaxed mental
attitude by claiming promises found throughout the word of God relating
to fear, such as

Isa. 41:10, “So do not fear, for I am with you, do not be dismayed, for
I am your God. I will strengthen you, surely I will uphold you with my
righteous right hand.”

Rom. 8:28, “For we know in fact, that to those who love God, He works
all things together for good, to those who are the called ones according
to a predetermined plan.”

If you do not remember many good promises, look them up in a Bible
concordance, look at a list of promises or call a friend for some help.

A promise is God’s guarantee, a capsule statement of Bible doctrine on
which to anchor your mental attitude. A promise expresses the character
of God and provides you with an instant perspective on things and gives
you the ability to reduce the most complicated situation to utmost
simplicity. Where panic reigned, peace can now be restored.

Claiming promises is never an end in itself. It is only the beginning of
the application of Faith-Rest. Promises cannot sustain a relaxed mental
attitude and they cannot solve complex problems. Promises are used to
make possible the most important phase of Faith-Rest, doctrinal
thinking.

**Apply doctrine**. Your concentration on doctrine during a Bible class
and in your studies has brought doctrine into your soul. Now you will
apply this doctrine by moving it to the front of your mind to meet the
demands of the moment. You will apply a rationale to the situation.

A rationale is a "reasoned exposition of principles or statements of
reasons; a set of reasoned rules or directions. By mentally tracing out
the principles related to a crisis, you are reexplaining to yourself the
basic concepts of doctrine that apply to the situation. This is
necessary because fear and the accompanying emotions have revolted
against thought, and you must take conscious and deliberate steps to
reinstate the rightful authority in your soul.

You could, for example, think through some conclusions derived from Rom.
8:29,30, “For those God foreknew He also predestined to be conformed to
the likeness of His Son, that He might be the firstborn among many
brothers, and those He predestined, He also called, those He called, He
also justified; those He justified He also glorified.” Your thought
process might go like this:

First, God thought about me in eternity past.

Next, He designed a perfect plan for me in eternity past.

Then, He chose me for a privileged part in His plan.

Therefore, God can bless me right now because I possess His
righteousness.

Finally, God will bless me forever in heaven.

These simple statements are really a set of five basic doctrines which
help restore divine viewpoint thinking. By using this system of
concentrating on doctrines which you have already learned, you can
immediately recall your place in the overall picture of God’s grace. By
this faith application of doctrine, you can become stabilized and regain
objectivity.

**Take control of the situation**.

Romans 8:31,32, “What conclusion are we forced to face with these
things? Since God is for us, who is against us? Who did not spare His
own unique Son, but delivered Him over on our behalf, how shall He not
with Him graciously give us all things.”

These conclusions, stated in these verses as rhetorical questions,
enable you to take control of situations which formerly caused fear and
anxiety. With objectivity and confidence restored, you can evaluate your
circumstances and make the decision or take the action which your own
wisdom and discernment dictate as the solution to the problem.

Even if the problem is hopeless, completely beyond your control, you can
still cope with it by intelligently trusting the Lord for a solution.

Any Bible doctrine you have stored in your human spirit can be developed
into a rationale to meet a test or crisis in your life.

At one time or another you will need every doctrine that you have had an
opportunity to learn.

If you find yourself lacking inner resources in time of crisis, it means
that you have not prepared yourself in advance for the testing. Testing
will come, ready or not.

In using Faith-Rest principles, you are employing the thinking of God
and His eternal wisdom as your own guide and counsel.

