---
title: "The Four Gospels"
indexTitle: "Gospels, the Four"
pdf: "fourgospels.pdf"
description: "Four Gospels, The -  An introduction to the gospels of Matthew, Mark, Luke and John."
tableofcontents: true
template: topic.jade
---


*by Rev. Mark Perkins, Pastor, Front Range Bible Church, Denver,
Colorado USA*

**General Introduction**

In the middle of the 6th decade of the first century, Christianity had
reached a crisis. Nero had begun his persecutions, and the Romans had
begun to suppress the open rebellion of the zealot Jews in Palestine.

The church had been well established throughout the Roman Empire, and
many doctrinal epistles had been written in support of the church.

Paul was in prison; many of the great believers of the eyewitness
generation had died from natural causes and violent persecution.

It appeared as though the prophecy of Christ about the destruction of
the Temple was about to come to pass due to the hopeless war in the Holy
Land.

It was because of these intense adversities that God the Holy Spirit
inspired three men in three different cities to write gospels - records
of the life of Christ.

The three locations of writing were widely and evenly distributed.

Mark recorded Peter’s gospel in Rome.

Luke wrote his gospel somewhere in Greece, probably in Achaia.

Matthew wrote from Antioch in Syria.

These three gospels were written for various reasons.

Matthew wrote to Jews, in order to convince them of the Messiahship of
Jesus.

He hoped to convert them before the folly of the Zealot movement
resulted in their persecution and destruction.

Already war was begun in Palestine.

Luke wrote to Greeks in order to provide an accurate history of the
events of the incarnation. His second work, the book of Acts, is the
accurate history of the early church.

Mark wrote to record the life of Christ as told by Peter. It is likely
that Peter was in prison and close to martyrdom when he dictated the
story of Christ’s life. Peter no doubt thought it imperative that the
story get out. The abbreviated nature of the narrative reveals both
Peter’s nature and that he was in a hurry.

These three gospels, although very similar in their record of events,
arose from independent sources.

Peter told the story to Mark as he remembered it.

Luke had apparently interviewed a number of people over the years and
put these materials together to form his gospel.

Matthew had already written quite a lot of material in Aramaic, which
had to do with the prophecies concerning the life of Christ. He used
this material to form the basis for a number of his passages, and filled
in the rest from memory.

There was no written source on which these three are all based. The Q
hypothesis is pure bunk, thought up by arrogant German scholars who had
nothing better to do because they had rejected the inspired nature of
the Word.

These three gospels are often called the synoptic gospels, because they
have roughly the same record of events. Synoptic means to ‘see
together’.

These synoptic gospels were all written within a year or two from one
another. It is therefore doubtful that they could have relied on one
another. The times of writing are as follows (all dates approximate).

Mark - 65 A.D.

Matthew and Luke - 66 A.D.

Notice that in the time of crisis it was important from the Spirit’s
point of view to provide knowledge of the life of Christ! Remember, the
Spirit chose when to inspire these works. The gospel of John is very
similar in that it is inspired during a time of great adversity for the
church. John wrote his gospel in the eighties, most likely the late
eighties.

The problems of harmonizing the gospels

Critics of the gospels have been very skeptical about the accuracy of
the gospel accounts because even the synoptic gospels do not appear (at
least on the surface) to harmonize well.

However when the gospels are analyzed and then harmonized by those whose
work goes beyond just a surface appraisal, things work out quite well.
One such harmony is Dr. Thomas’ A Harmony of the Gospels, which was
written together with Dr. Gundry.

Dr. Thomas lists the following as problems with harmonization on page
302 of his book.

Accounts of Christ’s words sometimes differ. One evangelist’s report of
the same conversation, saying, or discourse may be more less complete
than another’s. Differences may occur in grammatical construction.
Synonyms may be substituted, verb voice or tense changed, or nouns
replaced by pronouns. There may be differences in the order of
discussion.

Sometimes the differences in details reported even involve what appear
to be contradictions.

Occasionally, the same or similar statements will be found in contexts
which appear to reflect different situations.

Somewhat similar events occur in different situations.

Sometimes what really appears to be the same event will be reported in a
different order in another gospel.

Sometimes diverse descriptive details are given for what appears to be
the same event; sometimes these details may have the appearance of
discrepancy.

The gospel writers do not always report the same events.

The big issue is this: Do these problems undermine the historical
integrity of the gospels? If they do, then they undermine the inspired
nature of the word.

In the last century, the German scholars saw these problems and failed
to account for them. Instead, they arrogantly denied the inspired nature
of the Word, and the ministers and the people followed. The result was
two world wars, both started by a nation full of people who called
themselves Christians. We stand on the brink of the same possibility in
our own nation.

Do not fear, however, for responsible scholarship more than accounts for
these problems without compromising the historical integrity and
inspired nature of these documents.

The general solutions are as follows:

Jesus spoke three languages: Greek, Hebrew, and Aramaic. The gospels
were

all written in Greek. Therefore, by necessity many of the gospel
accounts of Jesus’ words are translations. In translation, there is
plenty of room of variance without losing meaning.

Sometimes the words are translated quite literally, but even so the use
of synonyms is quite acceptable. Sometimes the words are translated more
loosely in order to emphasize the impact of the words. This is also
perfectly acceptable.

In modern language we have many punctuation marks to indicate what is a
direct quote and what is not; what is a clarification by the author, and
what is a clarification by the original speaker; even footnotes are
employed to refer to source materials. None of these things were
available to the ancient writer.

Because of this it is difficult to tell when the writer is doing one of
these things in his translation of Jesus’ words (even if he is
translating). Suffice it to say that God the Holy Spirit is the
supernatural director of all translations of Jesus’ words, and He
ensured their accuracy.

When there are differences in translation, we can use them to amplify
all the translations.

Dr. Thomas summarizes this principle in this way: "What one does expect
to be reproduced in ordinary discussion are the striking or important
statements, the leading thoughts, the major divisions or topics, and the
general drift of discussion including transitions from one topic to
another. While different reports are expected to agree on these matters,
it is also expected that there will be differences on details such as
changes of person, substitution of pronouns for nouns or vice versa,
changes in tense, voice, or mood of the verbs, and substitution of
synonyms are too trivial to be taken as serious objections to a
reporter’s accuracy in ordinary discussion.

“While wording is important, meaning can be conveyed in a variety of
ways. Verbal inspiration does not imply that truth can be accurately
communicated in only one way. Rather, it means that the manner in which
the Holy Spirit did speak through the human agents is inspired and hence
accurate, word for word.”.

The people of the ancient world, especially the Jewish people, had
highly trained memories. They were often required to memorize long
passages of the Old Testament, and even in a language that was not their
native tongue.

This, together with the ministry of the Holy Spirit led to tremendous
accuracy with reference to the meaning of the translation.

When a translation is direct from the Greek, we can expect greater
accuracy in the quotation of Jesus’ words, but even so, one writer for
his own reason may add or subtract from the quotation without a
violation of the principle of inspiration.

Also, Christ no doubt repeated many of His words over the course of His
ministry; this does not mean that He said the exact same thing every
time. Even during the same sermon it is likely that He repeated Himself.
One gospel writer may have recorded one part, while another different
parts with slightly different wording.

Differences in the details of what appear to be the same event may in
fact be a record of two quite different occurrences.

Sometimes, a writer will arrange his material according to subject and
therefore take things out of chronological order. This too is
acceptable, and does not corrupt the inspired nature of the text.

The conclusion is this: that harmonizing the gospels presents no major
problems with reference to inspiration. The accounts do harmonize well,
and the problems that go with a harmony are easily and rationally
accounted for.

**The Gospel of Matthew**

For each gospel, we will follow this order:

Author

Circumstances of writing

Target readership

Purpose of writing, and

Characteristics of the gospel.

**The Author**

Matthew - God used an outcast. His name is a transliteration of the
Aramaic word which means “gift of God.”

In his own Gospel, Matthew uses his regular name. In other gospels, the
name Levi is used. It is likely that Matthew became his name after his
conversion.

Matthew was a Jewish tax collector. It is likely that he was fairly well
off financially because of his profession. This makes his decision to
follow Christ all the more remarkable, because he left it all behind -
Luke 5:28. It is likely that he worked at the toll house in Capernaum.

When he decided to follow our Lord, he threw a big party, and invited
all his friends. His decision to follow Christ was immediate.

As a tax collector, Matthew was an outcast in Jewish society. He
apparently had no friends who were devout in the Jewish faith for at his
party there were only other tax collectors and sinners.

The Roman tax collectors were hated by the Jews because the Roman taxes
were in addition to the Jewish taxes.

They were also hated because they represented the occupying forces of
the Roman Empire.

The tax collectors made their living by inflating the Roman taxes. They
essentially worked on commission.

Tax collectors were wealthy, but hated by their own society. They had to
live with a tremendous amount of prejudice.

Because of this prejudice their social options were severely limited.
They could only socialize with others who were outcasts.

It was easy for Matthew to follow Christ, considering his personal
circumstances. Social isolation does not make it easy to enjoy personal
wealth. No doubt he knew of the supernatural essence of Christ’s
ministry, and he may have even heard Him speak. It is often the outcast
that finds it easiest to follow Christ.

**The Circumstances Surrounding the Writing of the Matthew**

Of the circumstances of the writing of this gospel we know very little.
What little we can draw comes from inside the book.

**The Target Readership for Matthew**

The target readership for Matthew’s gospel was most likely Jewish
believers in Palestine. A secondary audience may be found in Jewish
audiences everywhere. His was the most read of all the gospels in the
first century. This popularity is a good testimony to its arrangement.

**The Purpose of the Gospel of Matthew**

The purpose of this gospel was generally to awaken and establish faith
in Jesus Christ.

That this gospel was written primarily with a Jewish audience in mind
brings a more specific purpose: To establish Christ as the Messiah and
to answer the attacks of Jewish critics on the issue of the person of
Christ.

It was also intended as a tool for use in evangelism for other
believers.

Finally, it was probably intended as a last ditch effort to stem the
tide of destruction which was descending upon the Jews in Palestine.

The Jews were their own worst enemies. They were extremely
self-destructive, and especially so since their rejection of Christ as
Messiah.

Their self-destructive tendencies culminated in a great number of them
choosing the way of the zealot - armed resistance without virtue.

The way of the zealot could only result in the destruction of the Jews
in the land, and of Jerusalem. The Romans’ method of warfare was far
superior to that of the zealots. Anyone with common sense could see the
inevitable destruction of the Jewish armies.

Therefore, Matthew wrote his gospel as a last-ditch effort to stem the
tide of destruction that had welled up among the Jews in Palestine.

Matthew wrote just as the zealots began their armed revolt in 66 A.D.

**General Characteristics of Matthew**

The most striking of the characteristics of this gospel is its emphasis
on Christ as the Messianic King promised by the Old Testament prophets.
Time and again Matthew points out some event in Christ’s life, or one of
His characteristics as being a fulfillment of a prophecy. He especially
concentrates on Christ as the fulfillment of the Davidic covenant.

Matthew also concentrates on the kingdom of the Messianic king. He uses
the term, “the kingdom of heaven” 32 times, but it is not mentioned
elsewhere in Scripture. He stresses both the spiritual and political
aspects of the kingdom. Matthew records ten parables about the kingdom
which are found in none of the other gospels. His is the gospel of the
New Covenant for Israel.

Matthew’s gospel has a very Jewish flavor, yet at the same time he often
takes the opportunity to denounce the Pharisees and their incorrect
practices and perceptions of the Messiah. The latter is probably due to
Matthew’s social isolation. No doubt he was often victimized by the
Pharisees for being a tax collector. Like so many who are the victims of
prejudice, Matthew has special insight into those who perpetuate such
sins.

However, Matthew does not exclude the Gentiles. Matthew was emotionally
a Gentile because of his social isolation. He makes sure his readers
understand that once the Jews have completely rejected Christ, the
kingdom would be transferred to the Gentiles.

Matthew is the one who arranges his material by subject, and aside from
the passion week he does not follow the chronological order of events.
Matthew, more than any other gospel writer, has an ax to grind. It is a
righteous ax, and so he arranges his material to suit the grinding.

In spite of Matthew’s choice of arrangement, his gospel retains a great
unity and order. This reveals the mind of a tax collector. The order of
numbers and accounts lead naturally to literary order. There is great
continuity in the order of the subjects, and excellent literary
transition.

**The Gospel of Mark**

**The Author(s) - Mark and Peter.**

There are really two persons behind the writing of this gospel. The one
who gave dictation, Peter, and the one who received it, Mark.

The following is an extraordinary statement: Mark was there when both
Paul and Peter died. It is extraordinary because Mark began life as a
coward, and was for while in great disfavor among the other disciples.
This is a testimony to the grace of God.

Mark was Jewish, and grew up in Jerusalem. No doubt he was aware of the
person of Christ and the events of His life. There is even some
speculation that he was the young man of Mark 14:51-52. The actions of
that young man are certainly commensurate with his character flaw of
cowardice which he expressed about 20 years later.

His mother’s name was Mary, and he was a relative of Barnabas. When Paul
and Barnabas took Mark along on the first journey, he left for home
before their ascent of the Taurus mountain range on their way to the
interior of Asia Minor, Acts 13:5.

This desertion set Paul’s heart against Mark. When Barnabas and Paul
decided on a later missionary journey, Paul refused to take Mark along
on the basis of his former desertion, Acts 15:36-39. In fact, Paul and
Barnabas had a sharp disagreement over the issue, and they parted ways
at that point. Barnabas believed in Mark.

Whatever transpired in the next 10 or 15 years (AD 49 to AD 62), Mark
had won himself over to Paul. During Paul’s first imprisonment, Mark was
there with him, Col. 4:10; Philem 24. In Philemon (62 AD) Paul calls
Mark a fellow worker. In Colossians, Paul reminds the Colossians to
welcome Mark if he comes that way. Paul is restoring Mark’s reputation
to others.

Mark was with Peter in Rome (called Babylon by Peter) 1 Pet. 5:13, and
sent his greeting along with Peter’s letter. Peter affectionately calls
Mark his son.

Mark apparently left Rome shortly after Peter’s first epistle (@65 AD),
because when Paul is imprisoned a second time at Rome, he calls for
Mark, who is with Timothy at Ephesus, 2 Tim. 4:11. Paul calls Mark ‘well
useful for service’. He considers Mark the deacon type, and finds great
favor with him in this role. The word for well useful is euchrestos, a
very positive and complimentary word.

If Mark obeyed Paul’s command, and it is likely he did, then he was
present when Paul was executed.

If Mark was there for Paul’s execution, then it is equally likely that
he was there for Peter’s, because they were both martyred at about the
same time, and both in Rome.

Mark watched the deaths of these two great believers. He faced death
with courage this time, a changed man because of the truth residing in
his soul. This is the man who ran at the arrest of Jesus, and who ran in
the face of the unknown at the base of the Taurus mountains. Mark was a
man who feared, and yet by the grace of God who grew, and then endured.
It is extraordinary that he is the one chosen by God the Holy Spirit to
put down in writing the gospel as told by Peter, probably just before or
just after Peter’s death.

Remember Mark next time that you fail! And remember him the next time
that you are ready to write someone off!

Peter - Peter’s name was also Simon. The testimony of Peter always
stands behind the writing of Mark in this epistle.

If there is one character trait of Peter which rises above all others,
it is his emotionalism. Peter often let his emotions rule his thinking,
much to his detriment and regret.

Peter is enthusiastic, emotional, swift to speak without thinking, full
of love and anger, sometimes legalistic and snobbish, and Jewish in a
prejudicial way. He is one of the independent, rebellious Galileans. He
loves Christ so much, yet he cannot muster the spiritual resources to
remain with Him in His arrest, trial, and death.

He is the second to the tomb on the third day, and enters first. He is
the first of the disciples to see Christ after the resurrection. He is
unsure of his standing with Christ immediately after the resurrection.
Peter is a leader and very much a preacher, though not careful about
what he says. He makes mistakes, he broods, and then he seeks and needs
forgiveness in a desperate emotional way. In the end, he writes two
epistles about suffering, and speaks his remembrances of Christ in a
brief, but humble manner.

The gospel includes those incidents which place Peter in an unflattering
light. In these he is brutally honest about his mistakes.

It excludes those incidents which place Peter in a flattering light.

Peter is an early leader in the church, but fades from the limelight in
about 50 AD Nothing is heard from him until he writes his epistles in
the early 60’s, and then dictates his gospel story to Mark in the
mid-60’s.

Probably the best analogy to Peter’s early character is a politician on
the campaign trail. Always promising, always in the limelight, but never
following through.

**Circumstances Surrounding the Writing of Mark**

The place is Rome, the situation the persecutions of Nero. Paul and
Peter are in prison, soon to die at the command of Nero himself.

Mark is there with them. Peter is anxious to tell the story of Christ
before he dies, and he does so, dictating to Mark.

It is not clear whether Mark actually composed this gospel before or
after Peter’s death. It is not important. This was a really hard time
for believers in Jesus Christ, and especially so in Rome.

The Intended Readers of Mark’s gospel.

It is most likely that Peter (and Mark) had a Gentile audience in mind.
This is especially interesting since Peter began with a prejudice
against the Gentiles, and one which was difficult for him to leave
behind. It apparently took him more than 20 years to do so. His gospel
is devoid of anything that would be offensive to a Gentile, and it does
not presuppose an extensive knowledge of the Old Testament.

Also, the Roman audience would have taken priority, since it was the
closest.

**The purpose of the Gospel of Mark**

Mark was written to win converts to Christianity. Mark portrays Christ
as a suffering servant. This image fits well the Christians in Rome, and
so the Romans would have been well acquainted with it.

To encourage those in Rome who were enduring persecution. Peter always
had a heart for those who were suffering. He mentions the persecution of
Christ often to encourage those who endured similar sufferings.

The greatest testimony and greatest encouragement for those who suffer
is that of Christ.

The greatest testimony for those who are in unbelief is the suffering of
Christ.

Remember, this gospel goes out to the very hotbed of the Neronian
persecution. It is a voice that rises above the cacophony of persecution
and says, “but it is true”.

**Characteristics of Mark’s Gospel**

Brevity - it is easily the shortest of the gospels, and conspicuous
among the missing are the nativity, the genealogy, and most of Christ’s
longer discourses.

Action - Peter tells the story as he lived his own life. The story moves
at a very fast pace, and its transitions force the narrative into a
bang-bang story. The crowds are always pressing, the demons always

attacking, miracles constantly being performed. Peter includes action
and excludes doctrine. Mark has been called the camera man of the gospel
writers for his vivid portrayal of the life of Christ.

Believability - the story is told in simple and even rough language.
Peter’s Greek lacks perfection, but it gives the gospel a nice ‘I was
there’ touch that makes it quite vivid and easy to believe. Many minor
details are included about Christ and His person. Even the bad things
are left in the story.

Centered on Christ as the Son of God and as the servant of man. This
would have been a good combination for his Gentile audience. The
distinction of servanthood would have been especially appropriate since
their Gods were ones who demanded service instead of those who would
give it. The contrast would be striking.

Chronological - Apparently, Mark’s gospel follows closely the actual
chronological order of events in the life of Christ.

**The Gospel of Luke**

**The Author - Luke**

God used a Gentile doctor. Luke is mentioned only three times in all of
the New Testament, yet he is responsible for 28% of it, for he wrote
both his gospel and the book of Acts.

Luke is the only Gentile writer of the New Testament, and probably the
only second-generation Christian writer. He was not present at the
incarnation.

Luke is most likely Greek. He is an excellent writer and historian. In
fact, he is the greatest of the historians of antiquity. He is
objective, detailed, and well-informed. He writes clearly and keeps
things very well ordered.

Paul calls Luke the beloved physician in Colossians 4:14.

Although there were many charlatans in the ancient world, there were
also a number of good and skilled physicians.

Medicine did not go much beyond advanced first aid in the ancient world,
but such a service was very valuable.

Luke was probably behind Paul’s advice for Timothy to take a little wine
for his stomach.

At one point, Luke was the only one with Paul during his imprisonment, 2
Tim 4:11.

Luke would have been a valuable addition to a missionary team,
considering the hazards of travel in the ancient world. Considering the
number of times that Christians were beaten, stoned, or otherwise
injured because of their faith, Luke got to practice his profession
often.

Luke was not only the team physician, but he was often active in the
evangelistic efforts, Acts 16:13. That Luke was a Gentile meant that he
would have been valuable in ministering to other Gentiles. Remember,
most of the missionary teams were Jewish, and Paul’s ministry at first
concentrated on teaching at synagogues.

**Circumstances and Target Readership.**

Luke wrote in about 66-67 AD He wrote his gospel, and later the Acts of
the Apostles, to a man by the name of Theophilus. He probably wrote from
somewhere in Greece, maybe even Athens. Little else is known about the
circumstances of writing.

Luke addresses Theophilus as “most excellent”. This title was often used
of those who were in prominent social or political positions. Theophilus
was likely such a man. By accepting a book dedicated to him, Theophilus
would have followed the ancient tradition of taking responsibility for
its publication. We owe our thanks to Theophilus for the preservation of
this great gospel.

Luke wanted to produce a gospel for Gentile readers, and it is easy on
the Hebraisms and explains Jewish customs and localities. He usually
quotes the Old Testament when it is contained in a saying of Christ, but
not otherwise. There is little emphasis on the fulfillment of prophecy.

**Purpose of the Gospel of Luke**

Luke comes right out and says it in chapter 1:4: “so that you might know
the exact truth about the things you have been taught.”

It is Luke’s intent to be precise, and to more fully explain the
subjects of which he has already spoken.

Verses 1-3 in the first chapter reveal Luke’s motive and method:
“Inasmuch as many have undertaken to compile an account of the things
accomplished among us, just as those who from the beginning were
eyewitnesses and servants of the word have handed them down to us, it
seemed fitting for me as well, having investigated everything carefully
from the beginning, to write it our for you in consecutive order, most
excellent Theophilus,”

Luke wrote for Theophilus, but with the intent that Theophilus would
publish this work, and pass it along to many others. Luke’s purpose is
broad in its scope.

It is apparent that there were many falsehoods and distortions going
around about the person and life of Christ. Luke wants to set the record
strait with an exact narrative of the events.

Of course, by getting the record straight, Luke’s desire is for
evangelism. He wants people to know the truth, and to identify Christ as
their savior. Luke has a great emphasis on the cross, and the end of the
life of Christ. This reveals his designs for evangelism.

**Characteristics of Luke’s Gospel**

Luke’s gospel is much more comprehensive than the others. It begins many
months before the other synoptic gospels, and it ends after the
ascension. Many details are included here which are not in the others.
Luke is a diligent and thorough historian.

Luke concentrates on praise and worship more so than the other gospels.
He records the four great nativity songs - Mary’s, Zacharias’, that of
the angels, and Simeon’s.

Luke emphasizes the humanity of Christ, and the perfection of that
humanity.

Luke stresses that Christ makes salvation available to all men, and not
just to Jews. He clearly shows the impact of Christ on the lives of many
men, women, and children. Both the rich and poor, the Jew, the
Samaritan, and the Gentile are included. Luke often shows this impact as
occurring right inside people’s homes.

Luke records seven prayers of Jesus Christ which are not mentioned
elsewhere.

Luke is literary. He has a remarkably large vocabulary, and uses many
different writing styles to fit the situation at hand. His is the best
written of the gospels from a literary standpoint. There are 800 words
in Luke and Acts which do not occur elsewhere in the New Testament.

Luke is detailed, but not to the point of boring his readers to death.
He has a knack for including what is pertinent to the narrative, and
leaving behind what is extraneous. Perhaps the powers of observation and
diagnosis he developed as a doctor come into play in this regard.

Luke concentrates on the death of Christ. From chapter 9 forward he
keeps the thread of Christ’s death in the fabric of his narrative.

**The Gospel of John**

**The Author - John**

God used a zealot. He was a cousin “according to the flesh” of Jesus
Christ. Brother of James (not the epistle writer). A native of Galilee.
John’s mother Salome was a follower of Jesus, and ministered to Him of
her own means.

John was a fisherman of the Sea of Galilee, his life was hard work, but
apparently it had paid off for his family, because they had servants,
and were able to support the ministry of Jesus Christ. Galilee was a
region somewhat analogous to the U.S. South not too long ago. It is
conservative to a fault, and more than a little rebellious in character.
The fires of rebellion flamed openly in this region. In reality a lot of
senseless violence took place in the name of the zealot movement, but
there was very little virtue. This time was somewhat analogous to that
of Northern Ireland today.

John had great humility. When John the Baptist points out Jesus as the
Messiah, John follows without delay. He never mentions own name in own
Gospel.

He was nicknamed, with brother James as the “Sons of Thunder”, a
reference to their manner in Word and Deed, Mk 3:17. It is likely that
they had a fair amount of Zealot ideals in their heads.

He was outspoken about his faith from the start. He was “The disciple
whom Jesus loved” - was the closest to Jesus of the inner circle of
Peter, James, and John.

He was the only eyewitness to the cross among the disciples, and he was
eyewitness to the resurrection, Jn 20.

He was one of the “Pillars of the Church”, Gal 2:9. Paul had a high
regard for him. He took over as chief of Apostles some time in the late
70’s.

His writing reflects the 50+ years of careful thought about the life of
Christ and the Christian life.

Under his ministry, Ephesus became the center of the pivot which gave
the Roman Empire its greatest time of prosperity under the Antonine
Caesars, 98-180 AD

He used very basic Greek grammar to express incredibly deep theological
ideas.

He was the key figure in the transition from the pre-canon period to the
post canon period.

**Circumstances of Writing the Gospel.**

John wrote about 20 years after the completion of the synoptic gospels.

The synoptic gospels were written during the Neronian persecutions;
John’s gospel is written in the aftermath. The Neronian persecution set
the attitude in the Roman Empire. The average Roman at least publicly
viewed Christianity and Christians with disdain.

This unpopularity was worse for Christianity than the original
persecution. Peer pressure was more effective in weakening Christianity
than capital punishment. Martyrs make good PR figures.

At the time of writing, Christianity was much weaker than it had been
some twenty years before.

John probably wrote from Ephesus, the place of his later ministry. He
had formerly ministered in Jerusalem, but was apparently driven out by
Jewish persecution.

John was the last eyewitness to the life of Christ, and he has a desire
to retell the story in his own words.

John wrote in a time of transition to the post-canon era of the church
age. The temporary spiritual gifts, with all their fantastic abilities,
are being left behind.

**The Target Audience**

If John’s Epistles are any indication of the readers of his gospel, he
wrote to a crowd that needed to understand the basics of Christianity.

The Christian church had fallen into great disrepair in just twenty
years’ time. The average Christian did not understand even how to
confess his or her sins.

The suffering of the Neronian persecution, and the relentless peer
pressure of the pagan Roman citizens had led many believers to seek
alternate philosophies which bore the name of Christianity, but which
were anything but.

John has an very tough uphill battle to fight with regard to heresy and
the truth. The situation was not unlike what we encounter in our nation
today.

**The Purpose of the Gospel**

In John 20:30-31, John communicates his purpose: “Many other signs
therefore did Jesus in the presence of the disciples, which are not
written in this book: but these are written, that you may believe that
Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God; and that believing you may have
life in his name.”

John wants his readers to believe if they are unbelievers, and to grow
to maturity if they are believers.

In order to do so, he attempts to establish Jesus as the Son of God and
the Messiah (Christ), and re-establish the Word of God as the authority
and the Truth.

**The Characteristics of the Gospel.**

The gospel is very simple in the use of the Greek language and writing
style.

John writes about some extremely profound concepts, and he uses many
symbols to do so.

John records at least six miracles which are recorded nowhere else in
the gospels. He always designates these as signs.

John’s gospel concentrates on events which are not recorded elsewhere.
He records Christ’s early Galilean ministry, and his upper room
discourse.

John concentrates on the words of Christ Himself.

John develops in a fair amount of detail the relationship between the
Father and the Son.

John’s gospel is like a commentary - he inserts his comments on the
narrative many times - interpreting and illuminating the events as they
occur.

