---
title: "Friendships"
pdf: "friendships.pdf"
description: "Friendships -  Every meeting with another person is a divine encounter."
tableOfContents: false
template: topic.jade
---

**Witnessing to Acquaintances and Friends**

Many people are nervous and self conscious when meeting new people.
Everyone knows that first impressions are important, and some people
find it hard to make new friends or to overcome their fear of meeting
people. It is important for Christians to know how to evangelize and
witness without being pushy or obnoxious and without invading a person’s
privacy.

The first step in solving this problem is to recognize every person we
meet as someone God is working with. Every time we meet someone, the
Lord has a purpose in the encounter. You know that the Lord is at work
in you. It is also true that the Lord has been at work in the person we
meet. Thus, with every “divine encounter”, two parts of God’s
“workmanship” are coming in contact with each other.

When we approach people with this outlook, we are able to begin a
meaningful friendship, even at the very first meeting, by trying to
answer for ourselves the following questions:

• What is the Lord trying to do with this person?

• How far has God progressed? Has the Lord been given freedom to work?

• In what ways has the Lord been hindered in working with this person?

• How can I be used by God to minister to this person?

You can see that the Christian response to personal encounters is far
different from the usual response. The wrong response is “I wonder what
he things of me?” The correct response is “What is God doing in his
life; and what can I do to help?”

**Degrees of Friendship**

The type of relationship you can have with an individual depends upon
the degree of friendship which has been established between you. Bill
Gothard, in his *Institute in Basic Youth Conflicts*, has identified
four “Levels of Friendship”. They are (1) **acquaintance**, (2) **casual
friend**, (3) **close friend**, and (4) **intimate friend**. Each level
has its distinguishing characteristics. Each level has its accompanying
responsibilities for the believer. At each level there are appropriate
questions and conversational topics which can be followed. These will
help you get to the point of having some kind of spiritual witness
without being pushy or offensive or invading someone’s privacy.

Acquaintance

An **acquaintance** is a person with whom you have only occasional
contact, sometimes it is only a single contact, such as someone you meet
while traveling or who comes to your house to fix the plumbing or
washing machine. Think of each contact as a “divine encounter”. Your
goal at this stage is to see an acquaintanceship develop as far as
possible in the time you have.

Be alert to each person you meet. Be cheerful and friendly. Learn the
person’s name and remember it! Then use his name in conversation once in
a while. At this level you are free to ask appropriate general questions
which reflect your interest and acceptance. You can ask about his work,
his place of residence, his opinion on current affairs (if not too
volatile a subject).

You should be a good listener and avoid talking about yourself unless
you are asked specific questions. Remind yourself that God has an
interest in this person and that you are hoping for an opportunity to
discuss spiritual matters.

Some people are more open and outgoing than others. With some, an
acquaintance will not develop further in a single encounter. Other
people may be quite willing to talk about themselves and even reveal
things of a personal nature even though you are virtually a stranger. In
this case, your relationship may develop into a Casual Friendship right
away.

Casual Friendship

A “casual friendship” is based on common interests or activities. A
casual friend may be a person at work or someone you know at a club, at
church, or on a sports team. At this level you are free to ask some
kinds of specific questions based on mutual interests. Your
responsibility is to try to recognize how far the Lord has progressed in
our friend’s life.

Try to discover your friend’s strong points. As much as possible,
*ignore his weak points*. In order to avoid invading privacy, it is
important to remember that you are not free to correct someone else’s
defects until you have been invited to do so. If he shares problems with
you, you can show interest and concern; and this may indicate that you
are entering into a Close Friendship with him. At this level, you *can*
learn about the hopes and desires your friend has for his life. You can
reflect interest and trustworthiness in being his friend. Moreover, you
can pray for him and his spiritual needs.

Close Friendship

Some people in your life will be “close friends”. A close friendship is
based on mutual life goals and long-term interests. You and your friend
are beginning to see potential achievement in each other’s life. There
is freedom to suggest mutual improvement projects, and your goal should
be to be creative in helping your friend develop appropriate projects
for spiritual advancement.

In a close friendship you will discuss specific goals and will assume a
personal responsibility for the development of such goals. You can be
creative in designing projects and trying to build your friend’s
interest for projects. You should be alert to portions of the Bible
which can encourage or guide your friend.

In a close friendship there will usually be more discussion of personal
problems and conflicts. When a person begins to discuss his deficiencies
with you, he is opening up private areas of his life. Sometimes (not
always) this indicates a call for help. Learn and use Biblical
techniques to deal with sensitive issues. Avoid giving advice apart from
divine viewpoint.

Intimate Friendship

You will not have many intimate friends, and any intimate friendship is
by its nature quite intense. Some married couples are intimate friends,
others are not. An intimate friendship is based on open honesty,
discretion, and a commitment to the development of each other’s
character and spiritual potential. There is the freedom to discern the
basic causes of character deficiencies or sin patterns and to work
together for solutions.

You will help your friend through trials and sorrows. You will assume
personal responsibility for his reputation. You are sensitive to traits
and attitudes which need improvement in both of you. You will work to
build interest in correcting deficiencies, and you will search the
Scriptures together for solutions. Intimate friends are committed to
faithfulness, loyalty, and availability.

