---
title: "Galatia"
pdf: "galatia.pdf"
description: "the location of much of Paul's travels; occupied by Gauls from Europe."
template: topic.jade
---


Galatia
=======

From [Galatia,](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Galatia) an article in
Wikipedia.

Ancient Galatia was an area in the highlands of central Anatolia in
modern Turkey. Galatia was named for the immigrant Gauls from Thrace
(cf. Tylis), who settled here and became its ruling caste in the 3rd
century BC, following the Gallic invasion of the Balkans in 279 BC. It
has been called the “Gallia” of the East, Roman writers calling its
inhabitants “Galli” (“Gauls”). [<sup>1</sup>](#sdfootnote1sym)

Galatia was bounded on the north by Bithynia and Paphlagonia, on the
east by Pontus and Cappadocia, on the south by Cilicia and Lycaonia, and
on the west by Phrygia. Its capital was Ancyra (i.e. Ankara, today the
capital of modern Turkey ).

**From W. J. Conybeare and J. S. Howson,*****The Life and Epistles of
St. Paul.***

We now come to a political division of Asia Minor, which demands a more
careful attention. Its sacred interest is greater than that of all the
others, and its history is more peculiar. The Christians of Galatia were
they who received the Apostle \`as if he had been an angel” who, \`if it
had been possible, would have plucked out their eyes and given them to
him” and then were \`so soon removed” by new teachers \`from him that
called them, to another Gospel” who began to \` run well,” and then were
hindered, who were \`bewitched” by that zeal which compassed sea and
land to make one proselyte, and who were as ready, in the fervor of
their party spirit, to \`bite and devour one another,” as they were
willing to change their teachers and their gospels.” (Gal. 4:15; 1:6;
5:7; 3:1; 1:7; 5:15) It is no mere fancy which discovers, in these
expressions of St. Paul’s Epistle, indications of the character of that
remarkable race of mankind, which all writers, from Caesar to Thierry,
have described as susceptible of quick impressions and sudden changes,
with a fickleness equal to their courage and enthusiasm, and a constant
liability to that disunion which is the fruit of excessive vanity, that
race, which has not only produced one of the greatest nations of modern
times, but which, long before the Christian era, wandering forth from
their early European seats, burnt Rome and pillaged Delphi, founded an.
empire in northern Italy more than co extensive with Austrian Lombardy,
and another in Asia Minor, equal in importance to one of the largest
domains of the pashas.

For the” Galatia” of the New Testament was really the \`Gaul” of the
East. The \`Epistle to the Galatians” would more literally and more
correctly be called the \`Epistle to the Gauls.” When Livy, in his
account of the Roman campaigns in Galatia, speaks of its inhabitants, he
always calls them \`Gauls.” [<sup>2</sup>](#sdfootnote2sym) When the
Greek historians speak of the inhabitants of ancient France, the word
they use is \`Galatians. The two terms are merely the Greek and Latin
forms of the same appellation.

That emigration of the Gauls, which ended in the settlement in Asia
Minor, is less famous than those which led to the disasters in Italy and
Greece ; but it is, in fact, identical with the latter of these two
emigrations, and its results were more permanent. The warriors who
roamed over the Cevennes, or by the banks of the Garonne, reappear on
the Halys and at the base of Mount Dindymus. They exchange the
superstitions of Druidism for the ceremonies of the worship of Cybele.
The very name of the chief Galatian tribe is one with which we are
familiar in the earliest history of France ; and Jerome says that, in
his own day, the language spoken at Ancyra was almost identical with
that of Treves.

The Galatians were a stream from that torrent of barbarians which poured
into Greece in the third century before our era, and which recoiled in
confusion from the cliffs of Delphi. Some tribes had previously
separated from the main army, and penetrated into Thrace. There they
were joined by certain of the fugitives, and together they appeared on
the coasts, which are separated by a narrow arm of the sea from the rich
plains and valleys of Bithynia. The wars with which that kingdom was
harassed, made their presence acceptable. Nicomedes was the Vortigern of
Asia Minor: and the two Gaulish chieftains, Leonor and Lutar, may be
fitly compared to the two legendary heroes of the Anglo Saxon invasion.
Some difficulties occurred in the passage of the Bosphorus, which
curiously contrast with the easy voyages of our pirate ancestors.

But once established in Asia Minor, the Gauls lost no time in spreading
over the whole peninsula with their arms and devastation. In their first
crossing over we have compared them to the Saxons. In their first
occupation they may be more fitly compared to the Danes. For they were a
movable army rather than a nation, encamping, marching, and plundering
at will. They stationed themselves on the site of ancient Troy, and
drove their chariots in the plain of the Cayster. They divided nearly
the whole peninsula among their three tribes. They levied tribute on
cities, and even on kings. The wars of the East found them various
occupation. They hired themselves out as mercenary soldiers. They were
the royal guards of the kings of Syria, and the mamelukes of the
Ptolemies in Egypt. [<sup>3</sup>](#sdfootnote3sym)

The surrounding monarchs gradually curtailed their power, and repressed
them within narrower limits. First Antiochus Soter drove the Tectosages,
and then Eumenes drove the Trocmi and Tolistobii, into the central
district which afterwards became Galatia. Their territory was definitely
marked out and surrounded by the other states of Asia Minor, and they
retained a geographical position similar to that of Hungary in the midst
of its German and Slavonic neighbors. By degrees they coalesced into a
number of small confederate states, and ultimately into one united
kingdom. Successive circumstances brought them into contact with the
Romans in various ways ; first, by a religious embassy sent from Rome to
obtain peaceful possession of the sacred image of Cybele ; secondly, by
the campaign of Manlius, who reduced their power and left them a nominal
independence ; and then through the period of hazardous alliance with
the rival combatants in the Civil Wars. The first Deiotarus was made
king by Pompey, fled before Caesar at the battle of Pharsalia, and was
defended before the conqueror by Cicero, in a speech which still remains
to us. The second Deiotarus, like his father, was Cicero’s friend, and
took charge of his son and nephew during the Cilician campaign. Amyntas,
who succeeded him, owed his power to Antony, but prudently went over to
Augustus in the battle of Actium. At the death of Amyntas, Augustus made
some modifications in the extent of Galatia, and placed it under a
governor. It was now a province, reaching from the borders of Asia and
Bithynia to the neighborhood of Iconium, Lystra, and Derbe, \`cities of
Lycaonia”

Henceforward, like the Western Gaul, this territory was a part of the
Roman Empire, though retaining the traces of its history in the
character and language of its principal inhabitants. There was this
difference, however, between the Eastern and the Western Gaul, that the
latter was more rapidly and more completely assimilated to Italy. It
passed from its barbarian to its Roman state, without being subjected to
any intermediate civilization. The Gauls of the East, on the other hand,
had long been familiar with the Greek language and the Greek culture.
St. Paul’s Epistle was written in Greek. The cotemporary inscriptions of
the province are usually in the same language. The Galatians themselves
are frequently called Gallo Grecians ; and many of the inhabitants of
the province must have been of pure Grecian origin. Another section of
the population, the early Phrygians, were probably numerous, but in a
lower and more degraded position. The presence of great numbers of Jews
4 in the province, implies that it was, in some respects, favorable for
traffic; and it is evident that the district must have been constantly
intersected by the course of caravans from Armenia, the Hellespont, and
the South. The Roman Itineraries inform us of the lines of communication
between the great towns near the Halys and the other parts of Asia
Minor. These circumstances are closely connected with the spread of the
Gospel, and we shall return to them again when we describe St. Paul’s
first reception in Galatia.

### Churches of Galatia

The remarks which have been made on Phrygia, must be repeated, with some
modification, concerning Galatia. It is true that Galatia was a province
: but we can plainly see that the term is used here in its popular
sense, not as denoting the whole territory which was governed by the
Galatian proprietor, but rather the primitive region of the tetrarchs
and kings, without including those districts of Phrygia or Lycaonia,
which were now politically united with it.

There is absolutely no city in true Galatia which is mentioned by the
Sacred Writers in connection with the first spread of Christianity. From
the peculiar form of expression with which the Christians of this part
of Asia Minor are addressed by St. Paul in the Epistle which he wrote to
them, and alluded to in another of his Epistles (1 Cor. 16:1), we infer
that the churches of Galatia, were not confined to any one city, but
distributed through various parts of the country.

If we were to mention two cities, which, both from their intrinsic
importance, and from their connection with the leading roads, are likely
to have been visited and revisited by the Apostle, we should be inclined
to select Pessinua and Ancyra. The first of these cities retained some
importance as the former capital of one of the Galatian tribes, and its
trade was considerable under the early Emperors. Moreover, it had an
ancient and widespread renown, as the seat of the primitive worship of
Cybele, the Great Mother. Though her oldest and most sacred image
(which, like that of Diana at Ephesus, had \`fallen down from heaven’)
had been removed to Rome, her worship continued to thrive in Galatia,
under the superintendence of her effeminate and fanatical priests; and
Pessinus was the object of one of Julian’s pilgrimages, when Heathenism
was on the decline. Ancyra was a place of still greater moment : for it
was the capital of the province.

The time of its highest eminence was not under the Gaulish but the Roman
government. Augustus built there a magnificent temple of marble, and
inscribed there a history of his deeds, almost in the style of an
Asiatic sovereign.” This city was the meeting place of all the great
roads in the north of the peninsula." And, when we add that Jews had
been established there from the time of Augustus,” and probably earlier,
we can hardly avoid the conclusion that the Temple and Inscription at
Angora, which successive travelers have described and copied during the
last three hundred years, were once seen by the Apostle of the Gentiles.

However this may have been, we have some information from his own pen,
concerning his first journey through” the region of Galatia.” We know
that he was delayed there by sickness, and we know in what spirit the
Galatians received him.

St. Paul affectionately reminds the Galatians (Gal. 4:13)” that it was
\`bodily sickness which caused him to preach the Glad Tidings to them at
the first.” The allusion is to his first visit : and the obvious
inference is, that he was passing through Galatia to some other district
(possibly Pontus, where we know that many Jews were established), when
the state of his bodily health arrested his progress.

Thus he became, as it were, the Evangelist of Galatia against his will.
But his zeal to discharge the duty that was laid on him did not allow
him to be silent. He was instant” in season and out of season.”“ Woe”
was on him if he did not preach the Gospel. The same Providence detained
him among the Gauls, which would not allow him to enter Asia or Bithynia
(Acts 16:6,7): and in the midst of his weakness he made the Glad Tidings
known to all who would listen to him.

We cannot say what this sickness was, or even with certainty identify it
with that” thorn in the flesh” (2 Cor. 12:7 10) to which he feelingly
alludes in his Epistles as a discipline which God had laid on him. But
the remembrance of what he suffered in Galatia seems so much to color
all the phrases in this part of the Epistle that a deep personal
interest is connected with the circumstance. Sickness in a foreign
country has a peculiarly depressing effect on a sensitive mind. And
though doubtless Timothy watched over the Apostle’s weakness with the
most affectionate solicitude, yet those who have experienced what fever
is in a land of strangers will know how to sympathize, even with St.
Paul, in this human trial.

The climate and the prevailing maladies of Asia Minor may have been
modified with the lapse of centuries: and we are without the guidance of
St. Luke’s medical language,” which sometimes throws a light on diseases
alluded to in Scripture: but two Christian sufferers, in widely
different ages of the Church, occur to the memory as we look on the map
of Galatia. We could hardly mention any two men more thoroughly imbued
with the spirit of St. Paul, than John Chrysostom and Henry Martyn, And
when we read how these two saints suffered in their last hours from
fatigue, pain, rudeness, and cruelty, among the mountains of Asia Minor
which surround the place where they rest,
[<sup>4</sup>](#sdfootnote4sym) we can well enter into the meaning of
St. Paul’s expressions of gratitude to those who received him kindly in
the hour of his weakness.

The Apostle’s reception among the frank and warmhearted Gauls was
peculiarly kind and disinterested. No Church is reminded by the Apostle
so tenderly of the time of their first meeting. The recollection is used
by him to strengthen his reproaches of their mutability, and to enforce
the pleading with which he urges them to return to the true Gospel. That
Gospel had been received in the first place with the same affection
which they extended to the Apostle himself. And the subject, the manner,
and the results of his preaching are not obscurely indicated in the
Epistle itself. The great topic there, as at Corinth and everywhere, was
\`the cross of Christ” Christ crucified” set forth among them.
[<sup>5</sup>](#sdfootnote5sym) The Divine evidence of the Spirit
followed the word, spoken by the mouth of the Apostle, and received by
\`the hearing of the ear.” Many were converted, both Greeks and Jews,
men and women, free men and slaves.

The worship of false divinities, whether connected with the old
superstition at Pessinus, or the Roman idolatry at Ancyra, was forsaken
for that of the true and living God. And before St. Paul left the region
of Galatia on his onward progress, various Christian communities were
added to those of Cilicia, Lycaonia, and Phrygia.

[1](#sdfootnote1anc)<sup>****</sup> from Wikipedia article *Galatia*.

[2](#sdfootnote2anc)<sup>****</sup> The country of the Galatians was
sometimes called Gallogrecia.

[3](#sdfootnote3anc)<sup>****</sup> Even in the time of Julius Caesar,
we find four hundred Gauls (Galatians), who had previously been part of
Cleopatra’s bodyguard, given for the same purpose to Herod. Josephus,
*War,*xx.3.

[4](#sdfootnote4anc)<sup>****</sup> It is remarkable that Chrysostom
and Martyn are buried in the same place. They both died on a journey at
Tocat or Comana in Pontus.

[5](#sdfootnote5anc)<sup>****</sup> Compare Gal. 3:1 with 1 Cor.
1:13,17 and 2:2

