---
title: "Gideon"
pdf: "gideon.pdf"
description: "Gideon -  A brief history of the life of Gideon, the judge of Israel."
tableofcontents: true
template: topic.jade
---

Gideon was the son of Joash, of the tribe of Manasseh. His name means
“tree feller” or “warrior”, and his story is related in the book of
Judges, chapters 6, 7, and 8.

##### The Condition of Israel

At the time of the account of Gideon’s story, Israel was in one of its
many spiritual down-cycles, having relapsed into evil and idolatry and
been brought under divine disci­pline through the domination of the
Midianites for the past seven years. The Amalekites and the “children of
the east” (east of the Jordan river) were allied with Midian; and the
power of these allies brought so much pressure on the Jewish people that
they “made them dens which are in the mountains, and caves, and
strongholds.”

**Judges 6:1-6**

The enemy camped in Israelite territory, destroyed or stole the crops
and flocks, “till thou come unto Gaza, and left no sustenance for
Israel, neither sheep, nor ox, nor ass.” Israel was said to be “greatly
impoverished.” The people “cried for help from the Lord”, (6:7). The
Lord sent a prophet (name not given) to reprove them for their
disobedience and to bring them to repentance.

**Judges 6:7-10**

##### The Call of Gideon

Gideon was threshing wheat in the wine­press, to hide it from the
Midianites. The an­gel of the Lord appeared to him and said “The Lord is
with thee, thou mighty man of valor.” Gideon’s despondent reply was, “
if the Lord be with us, why then is all this befallen us? and where be
all his miracles which our fathers told us of, saying, Did not the Lord
bring us up from Egypt? But now the Lord hath forsaken us, and delivered
us into the hands of the Midianites.” The angel of the Lord replied,
“Go…and thou shalt save Israel from the hand of the Midianites; have I
not sent thee.”

**Judges 6:15-24**

##### Gideon Destroys the Altar of Baal

The Lord told Gideon to purify his father’s house from idolatry, and to
sanctify himself by offering a burnt offering. The following night, in
the dark for fear of the other people, he tore down the altar and cut
down the grove of trees where Baal worship was held.

The people wanted to kill Gideon because of this act of desecration, but
Joash, Gideon’s father, took his part, telling the men to allow Baal to
plead for himself — if he was a god, he could protect himself.

##### The Sign of the Fleece

The Midianites and their allies again in­vaded Israel, and Gideon
gath­ered an army from the tribes of Manasseh, Asher, Zebulun, and
Naphtali. But before going out to battle, he asked for a sign from the
Lord. He asked that dew be allowed to fall on a fleece which was spread
on the threshing floor, which the ground around remained dry. The next
morn­ing the fleece was so wet that Gideon wrung a bowl of water from
it, but the ground was dry. The next night, the miracle was reversed,
with the ground getting wet and the fleece remain­ing dry (6:36-40).
Thus encouraged, Gideon led his army toward the Midianite forces.

##### The Defeat of the Midianites

Gideon advanced against the enemy and camped near the brook Harod, in
the valley of Jezreel (the Plain of Esdraelon). His army numbered about
32,000 effectives, which the army of the Midianites was 135,000 (8:10).
Nevertheless, the Lord told Gideon that his army was too large! So
Gideon announced to his forces that every man who was afraid or
fainthearted, was free to go back home. At that time 22,000 of his
troops left for home. (This was not the Alamo.)

The Lord wanted the army reduced so that there would be no doubt that it
was the Lord fighting for Israel and that the victory would be a true
miracle. But even 10,000 troops were too many, the Lord said, and He
gave di­rections for cutting the army still further, the water-drinking
test. Those who knelt to drink were rejected and sent home. Those who
scooped water in their hands and lapped it from their hands, in order to
drink from an alert posture, were selected. Only 300 quali­fied!

Each of the 300 was equipped with a trum­pet, a torch, and a pitcher.
Gideon divided these men into three companies, and told them to surround
the Midianite camp, to put their torches inside the pitchers and sent
them on fire, and to wait for the signal of the trumpet. At the signal,
the men broke the pitchers, re­vealing the torches, blew the trumpets,
and shouted “The sword of the Lord and of Gideon!”

The effect was complete surprise and shock. The 300 looked like a
massive army, and the Midianites fled hastily, with Gideon in pursuit.
Gideon sent word to the Ephraimites to cut off the enemy retreat at the
Jordan River; and the Midianite prince was captured and executed.

Gideon was offered the kingship of Israel, but he refused. He requested
a gift of the gold earrings which were taken from the enemy. With these
he made a golden ephod (weighing about 50 pounds), which subsequently
became an object of worship proving a snare to Israel and to Gideon
because he had invaded the pre­rogatives of the priesthood.

