---
title: Gossip
template: lesson.jade
---


**Gossip**

From International Standard Bible Encyclopedia

**Gossip**[Heb *rāḵîl*] (Prov. 20:19); AV TALEBEARER; [*dibbâ*] (“evil
gossip,” Ezk. 36:3); AV INFAMY; NEB COMMON TALK OF MEN; [Gk
*psithyrismós*] (2 Cor. 12:20); AV WHISPERINGS; [*psithyristḗs*] (Rom.
1:29); AV, NEB, WHISPERER; [*phlýaros*] (1 Tim. 5:13); AV TATTLER.

In its biblical setting, “gossip” is used to designate the spreading of
secrets or rumors, usually for the purpose of slander (which is the
translation of *rāḵîl* in Lev. 19:16; Jer. 6:28; 9:3 [MT 2]). This
designation is supported, e.g., by the literal meaning of the term,
“whisperer.” According to Prov. 20:19, the one who “goes about gossiping
reveals secrets,” and therefore no one should associate with one who
“speaks foolishly” (cf. Prov. 11:13, where *rāḵîl* is translated
“talebearer”).

In the NT, Paul placed “gossip” in the midst of two separate lists of
evil practices (2 Cor. 12:20; Rom. 1:29). The latter reference is part
of a catalog of sins that characterized the pagan world in its
opposition to God. Since people did not acknowledge God for what He is,
“God gave them up to a base mind and to improper conduct” (v 28). As a
result, they were, among other things, gossips, slanderers, haters of
God, and inventors of evil (Rom. 1:29–32). Paul also warned against
enrolling younger widows for church ministry and support, since it was
quite possible that they would desire to marry again. “Besides that,”
said Paul, “they learn to be idlers, gadding about from house to house,
and not only idlers but gossips and busybodies, saying what they should
not” (1 Tim. 5:13).

A. J. Birkey

How to Have Victory Over Sins of the Tongue
-------------------------------------------

1. Grow daily in conformity with the Lord Jesus Christ

2. Ask God the Father for provision and protection in this area.

3. Confess this sin each time you are convicted of it.

4. Learn to recognize all of the verbal sins – some are obvious, some
are subtle.

5. Keep silent during discussion of a bad situation.

6. Keep silent during discussion of another person.

7. Keep silent.

**RULE: Do not pass on derogatory or uncomplimentary information about
anyone, unless the Word of God has given you the specific authority and
responsibility to do so, and the person you are informing likewise has
responsibility in the situation and a need-to-know the information.**

