---
title: "Hannibal"
pdf: "hannibal.pdf"
description: "Hannibal -  When Hannibal was twenty-eight years old he had received a soldier's training through nineteen years in camp. He had disciplined his body to hardship, his appetite to moderation, his tongue to silence, his thought to objectivity. [MAR 2013]"
template: lesson.jade
---


<sup>Hannibal</sup>

[ from The Story of Civilization, Vol. III, Caesar and Christ, by Will
Durant ]

When Hannibal was twenty-eight years old he had received a soldier’s
training through nineteen years in camp. He had disciplined his body to
hardship, his appetite to moderation, his tongue to silence, his thought
to objectivity. He was “the first to enter the battle, and the last to
abandon the field”, according to Livy…The Romans accused him of avarice,
cruelty, and treachery, for he honored no scruples in seizing supplies
for his troops, punished disloyalty severely…Yet we find him often
merciful, always chivalrous. The Romans could not readily forgive him
for winning battles with his brains rather than with the lives of his
men…Hannibal led his troops north…and then struck eastward into the
Alps. Celtic tribes had crossed those ranges before him…but he had
difficulty getting his elephants through narrow or precipitous passages.
After a climb of nine days, he reached the summit and found it covered
with snow…His army of 59,000 was reduced to 26,000 by the time he
reached the plains of Italy, so great were the hardships. Fortunately,
he was welcomed as a liberator by the Cisalpine Gauls, who joined him as
allies. The Roman settlers fled southward across the Po River.

Rome mobilized all its resources and called upon all the states in Italy
to defend the land. The Romans raised an army of 300,000 foot, 14,000
horse, and 456,000 reserves. Hannibal won two battles in North Italy,
but he knew he was still outnumbered 10 to 1. He failed to persuade the
Italian states to join him, and his Gallic “allies” were losing heart.
The Romans attacked Hannibal at Cannae with 80,000 infantry, and 6000
cavalry. Hannibal had 19,000 Carthaginian and Spanish veterans, 16,000
unreliable Gauls, and 10,000 horse. He placed the Gauls at his center,
expecting them to give way, which they did. When the Romans followed
them into the pocket, his veterans closed in on the Roman flanks and the
cavalry attacked from behind. The Romans lost all chance of maneuvering,
and 44,000 fell in one day’s battle, including eighty senators who had
enlisted as soldiers. This battle ended the days of Roman reliance upon
infantry and set the lines of military tactics for two thousand years.

Hannibal’s defeat of the Roman legions at Cannae shattered Rome’s hold
on the southern Italian states. Several joined Hannibal, and Carthage
sent some reinforcements and supplied. For a month, the city of Rome was
hysterical in terror. The class war ceased, and all citizens rushed to
the aid of the state. Every male who could carry weapons was enlisted
and served voluntarily without pay. Rome settled in for a defense
against the Lion of Carthage.

But Hannibal did not come! His 40,000 were too small a force against a
city to whose defense would come many armies on a moment’s notice. If he
took Rome, how could he hold it? Hannibal decided to wait until
Carthage, Greece (Macedon), and Syracuse could unite with him in an
offensive that would retake Sicily, Sardinia, Corsica, and Illyria. He
released all but a few of the Roman captives and took his troops to
winter in Capua.

After a winter of relaxation and pleasure in one of the vice capitals of
the world, Hannibal’s soldiers were never again the invincible troops
which had borne so much hardship. During the next five years Hannibal
led them to some minor successes, using Capua as his HQ. The Romans
besieged this city with 200,000 legionnaires, and Hannibal was forced to
retire to the south of Italy.

Meanwhile, a Roman army had been sent to Spain to keep Hasdrubal,
Hannibal’s brother, occupied. Hasdrubal was defeated at the Ebro River,
but the Romans lost their gains when their leaders were killed.
Hasdrubal’s main force escaped, crossed the Pyrenees into Gaul and the
Alps into Italy. He sent a message to Hannibal with his plans for
reinforcing him, but the message was intercepted by the Romans. Despite
his excellent generalship, Hasdrubal was defeated by the Romans before
he could reach Hannibal. Hasdrubal went to his death in combat rather
than face imprisonment and disgrace by the Romans.

In 205 B.C. a new Roman army was raised, sailed for Africa, and attacked
Carthage. The Carthaginians appealed to Hannibal to come to their aid.
Imagine the feelings of this half-blind warrior, driven into a corner of
Italy by an endless stream of enemies, seeing all his toil and hardship
of fifteen years brought to nothing, and all his triumphs wasted. Half
his troops refused to leave Italy with him. He landed near Carthage,
hastily formed a new army, and went out to face Scipio Africanus at
Zama, fifty miles south of Carthage (202 B.C.).

The two generals met in courteous interview, found agreement impossible,
and joined battle. For the first time in his life, Hannibal was
defeated. More than 20,000 Carthaginians were left dead on the field.
Hannibal attacked Scipio in personal combat, wounding him. He attacked
the leader of the Numidian cavalry, Masinissa, reformed his disorganized
forces again and again, and led them in desperate countercharges. Seeing
conditions hopeless, Hannibal fled to Carthage and advised the Senate
there to sue for peace. Rome settled with Carthage on the following
terms:

-   Carthage was allowed to retain her African empire

-   She was to surrender all war vessels except ten triremes

-   She was not to make war against anyone outside Rome or within it
    without Rome’s consent

-   She was to pay Rome \$720,000 per year for fifty years

This Second Punic War changed the Mediterranean in a way that is still
being felt in the Twentieth Century A.D.

• It gave Spain and all its wealth to Rome, providing funds for Roman
conquest of Greece

• It reunited Italy under Rome’s unquestioned mastery

• It threw open all routes and markets to Roman ships and goods

• It ravaged or injured half the farmland in Italy, destroyed 400 towns,
killed 300,000 men, from which southern Italy has not quite recovered to
this day.

• It weakened democracy by showing that a popular assembly cannot wisely
choose generals or direct a war

• It began the transformation of Roman life and morals by hurting
agriculture and helping trade, by taking men from the countryside and
teaching them the violence of the battlefield, and by bringing new money
to finance luxuries and imperialistic expansion.

• In short, the war with Carthage was a pivotal event for almost every
phase of Roman history.

To Carthage it was the beginning of the end. Their government became so
corrupt that the people again called for Hannibal to come out of
retirement and save the nation. He was elected leader in 196 B.C. He
punished corruption and virtually eliminated graft. He relieved the
citizens of some of the most burdensome taxes.

To get rid of Hannibal, the rich merchants secretly sent word to Rome
that Hannibal was plotting to renew the war. Scipio used all his
influence to protect his friendly rival, but was overruled. The Roman
Senate demanded the surrender of Hannibal. Hannibal fled the city, rode
150 miles to Thapsus, and took ship for Antioch. He found Antiochus III
hesitating between war with Rome and peace; he advised war and became
one of the king’s staff. When the Romans defeated Antiochus at Magnesia
(near Ephesus) in 189 B.C., they made it a condition of peace that
Hannibal be turned over to them.

Hannibal escaped, first to Crete, then to Bithynia. The Romans hunted
him down and surrounded his hiding place with soldiers. Hannibal said,
“Let us relieve the Romans from the anxiety they have so long
experienced, since they thing it tries their patience too much to wait
for an old man’s death.” He drank the poison he carried with him and
died at the age of 67. A few months later, his conqueror and admirer,
Scipio, followed him in death. In a final war with Carthage lasting from
151 to 146 B.C., Rome completely annihilated the Carthaginians and razed
their cities to the ground, sowing them with salt.

