---
title: "Haran"
pdf: "haran.pdf"
description: "a stopping point on Abraham's journey to Canaan."
template: lesson.jade
---


Haran **0**

**HARAN** A city in the upper reaches of the Balih Valley, a commercial
and cultural center from the 2nd millennium onwards. It lies on an
ancient caravan route from Mesopotamia to Cappadocia, Syria, Palestine
and Egypt. Terah, the father of Abraham, settled here with his family
(Gen. 11:31), and it was an important center in the early history of the
Hebrew nation. Abraham sent here to find a wife for his son Isaac (Gen.
24:4) and Jacob came here after escaping from Esau (Gen. 28:10).

Haran is mentioned in the Mari archives as a religious center for the
West Semitic tribes, who worshipped at the temple of the moon god, Sin.

From the 15th to the 13th centuries bc Haran was part of the Horite
kingdom of Mitanni; with the collapse of the kingdom it was conquered by
Assyria (*c.* 1270 bc). It was subsequently held temporarily by the
Arameans and then recaptured by the Assyrians. When Nineveh was captured
by the Medes (Madai) and the Chaldeans (612 bc), Haran became the
capital of the kingdom of Madai for a brief period. At about this time
it is mentioned by Ezekiel as one of the cities trading with Tyre (Ezek.
27:23). During the whole of this period it was a center for the cult of
Sin. Nabonidus, the last Babylonian king, preferred Haran to Babylon and
rebuilt the temple of Sin there. Some of Nabonidusâ€™ most important
documents, as well as the autobiography of his mother, were found here.

Haran is identified with Sultan Tepe. Excavations made in the vicinity
of the town have uncovered an important library of the later Babylonian
period.

