---
title: "Heaven"
pdf: "heaven.pdf"
description: "Heaven -  The word heaven, or the heavens, is used in the Scriptures in a number of different senses. [FEB 13]"
template: topic.jade
---


**Heaven**

**From International Standard Bible Encyclopedia**

**Heaven**[Heb *šāmayim*—‘heights,’ *mārôm*—‘height’ (Job 25:2; Isa.
24:18, 21), *ma˓*<sup>*a*</sup>*leh*—‘ascent’ (Isa. 7:11); Aram
*š*<sup>*e*</sup>*mayim* (Dnl. 4:11 [MT 8]); Gk *ouranós*—‘that which is
raised up’]; AV also AIR (cf. Gen. 1:26), SKY, SKIES, ON HIGH, HEAVENS
(Zec. 6:5; He. 8:1), HEAVENLY (1 Cor. 15:48), “places,” “the high ones”
(Isa. 24:21), HEIGHT; NEB also SKY, SKIES, HEAVENS, HEAVENLY, “realm on
high,” etc.; HEAVENS [Heb *šāmayim, mārôm* (Ps. 78:69); Aram
*ša*<sup>*e*</sup>*mayim* (Jer 10:11); Gk *ouranoí* (cf. Mk. 13:25)]; AV
also HEAVEN (cf. Gen. 1:1), HEAVENS OF HEAVEN (Ps. 68:33 [MT 34]), VERY
HIGH, “palaces” (Ps. 78:69), “astrologers” (Isa. 47:13); NEB also HEAVEN
(cf. Gen. 1:1; Ps. 68:33), HIGH PLACES, “astrologers” (Isa. 47:13).
“Heaven” denotes the sky, outer space, the abode of God, angels, and
other spiritual creatures, or may be used as a circumlocution for God,
depending on the context.

I. Old Testament
----------------

In the OT, heaven is often metaphorically conceived as something fixed
and material: it has windows (Gen. 7:11), pillars (Job 26:11),
foundations (2 S. 22:8), and it can be torn (Isa. 63:19) like a curtain
(cf. Mk. 1:10). In these senses, heaven is related to the “firmament”
(Heb *rāqî[a]˓*; cf. Gen. 1:8).

Heaven often refers to the space immediately enveloping the earth, i.e.,
the atmosphere, and a number of meteorological phenomena are mentioned:
rain (Gen. 8:2), snow (Isa. 55:9–11), frost (Job 38:29), dew (Dt. 33:13,
AV, RSV mg), hail (Josh. 10:11), thunder (1 S. 2:10), wind (Zec. 6:5),
and clouds (Ps. 147:8). Thus, heaven is the realm of various signs, both
natural (Mt. 16:2f) and supernatural (Ex. 10:21f). In a combination of
these two views, heaven is also the realm wherein the rainbow, God’s
sign of his covenant with Noah, is seen (Gen. 9:13–17).

Heaven can also denote outer space, where the lights (Gen. 1:14) and
stars (Dt. 4:19) are located. The planets Venus and Saturn are referred
to (Isa. 14:12; Am. 5:26), though they are not distinguished from the
fixed stars. (*See* Astronomy II.B, C.) Several constellations are
mentioned (Job 9:9; 38:31). Though cultic worship was often associated
with astrology among the peoples of the Near East, such practice was
forbidden to the Hebrews (Ex. 20:4). The prophets condemned sacrificial
offerings to the stars (Jer 44:17–25), and astrological speculations
were forbidden (Isa. 47:13). Such warnings reflect the conviction that
the heavens, too, were part of the created order (Gen. 1:1; cf. Ps.
33:6) and therefore not to be worshiped in the place of the Creator.
(*See* Astrology IV.)

In many passages, “heaven” is the abode of God: “Look down from heaven
and see, from thy holy and glorious habitation” (Isa. 63:15). Both God’s
habitation (Ps. 33:14) and His sanctuary (Ps. 102:19 [MT 20]; cf. Ps.
61:4 [MT 5]) are “in the heavens.” God’s throne is in heaven (Ps. 14:2;
103:19), and at times heaven is called the throne of God (Isa. 66:1; Mt.
5:34; He. 8:1). God’s house is in heaven (Ps. 61:4; Jn. 14:2) and He
dwells there (1 K. 8:12). Thus, God is often called “the God of heaven”
(e.g., Gen. 24:3, 7; 2 Ch. 36:23; Ezr. 1:2; Neh. 1:4f; Dnl. 2:37, 44).
Yahweh, the God of heaven, is implored in prayer (Dt. 26:15) to “look
down from thy holy habitation from heaven, and bless thy people Israel.”
Since God was thought to be above, people lifted their hands in oaths
(Dt. 34:20) and in prayer (Ex. 9:29).

II. New Testament
-----------------

In postexilic Judaism the term heaven came to be used as a
circumlocution for the divine name Yahweh or for the term “God.” This
phenomenon occurs only once in the OT (Dnl. 4:23 [MT 20]) but is
frequent in the NT. In the parable of the Prodigal Son, the son returns
and confesses to his father: “I have sinned against heaven,” meaning
that he had sinned against God (Lk. 15:21). Jesus referred to this
common practice of using heaven as a substitute for God when He said, “…
he who swears by heaven, swears by the throne of God and by him who sits
upon it” (Mt. 23:22). Similarly Jesus asked the priests and elders
whether John’s baptism was “from heaven or from men” (Mt. 21:25), and
John the Baptist is reported to have said, “No one can receive anything
except what is given him from heaven” (Jn. 3:27). This phenomenon can
also be seen in Jesus’ preaching of the kingdom: Mark and Luke
consistently use the phrase “the kingdom of God,” but Matthew usually
substitutes the phrase “the kingdom of heaven” (cf. Mk. 1:15 par Mt.
3:17; Mk. 4:11 par Mt. 13:11, etc.). (*See also* Kingdom of God V.A.)

Reference to heaven is made as a means of establishing the authority of
someone or something. Thus “the heavens were opened” at Jesus’ baptism
(Mt. 3:16), indicating the authoritative nature of His mission. The
heavenly voice (Mt. 3:17) was also indicative of divine authority.
Similarly, Paul testified before King Agrippa, justifying his apostolic
mission with reference to “the heavenly vision” (Acts 26:19).

Of great significance is the ambivalent portrayal of heaven given in the
biblical materials. The popular conception of heaven revolves around
clouds, harps, and angels, with humanity marching through the Pearly
Gates to live a life of bliss. This conception is far removed from the
biblical witness. Rather, the Bible depicts heaven under the wrath of
God, the scene of cosmic warfare, and finally subject to dissolution
prior to the creation of a new heaven. This ambivalence surrounding
heaven is to be expected because of the fundamental antithetical
structure of biblical eschatology, which is conceived in terms of this
present evil age and the age to come (*see* Eschatology; Kingdom of
God). It must be stressed that in this framework this whole age
experiences turbulence, disquiet, and flux; both heaven and earth
experience the wrath of God, the powers of evil, personal
incompleteness, and temporality. Only the age to come is “heaven” in any
idyllic sense. In support of this view attention should be given to the
following points.

(1) Heaven is populated by angels that are not absolutely good. Rom.
8:38 implicates heavenly angels in the execution of the wrath of God.
This is also seen in Paul’s warning that the saints will judge the
angels (1 Cor. 6:3). This judgment is not restricted to the fallen
angels (cf. Jude 6; 2 Pet. 2:4), but rather, in light of the absence of
any qualifying epithet (Gk *angélous*), the angels in view here must be
considered “good” angels.

(2) The heavenly tribunal was accessible to the accuser, Satan (Job 1:6;
cf. Zec. 3:1). In Lk. 10:17–20 we are told that the accuser had been
refused hearing before the heavenly tribunal and had been cast down.
This occurred initially during the temptation and the exorcistic
activities of Jesus and His disciples. This event is symbolically
depicted at Rev. 12:7–12, a description of a war in heaven. At vv 8, 10,
and 12 we are told that Satan was “cast out” and that “no longer” was
there any place for him in heaven. Hence, only since Christ’s death and
ascension to heaven has Satan’s access to heaven been terminated.

(3) Some of the cosmic powers created by God (Col. 1:16) stand in need
of redemption and reconciliation (v 20), which was accomplished in the
cross of Christ. Some of these heavenly powers will be destroyed, being
beyond redemption (cf. 1 Cor. 15:24). These cosmic powers are evil, and
Paul describes the Christian’s warfare as against them (cf. Eph. 6:12).
*See* Heavenly.

(4) Even in those heavenly precincts where God’s presence is manifested
there is disquiet and turmoil: the souls of the martyrs kept under the
altar cry out and complain, saying, “O Sovereign Lord,… how long?” (Rev.
6:9f). They are perplexed and even impatient at the postponement of
judgment. Only Jesus’ parousia and the subsequent completed judgment
will bring these souls full blessedness. Though they are given white
robes and told to rest “a little longer” (6:11), it is difficult to
understand how the souls of the righteous could enjoy rest knowing that
their fellow servants are being slaughtered. This “rest” is certainly
not the rest of perfection, of completed blessedness.

(5) Paul tells us (2 Cor. 5:1–10) that the saints now in heaven are
naked (Gk *gymnoí*, v 3), having not yet received their spiritual bodies
(1 Cor. 15:44), which await the Parousia. Thus the intermediate state of
the righteous prior to the eschatological consummation must not be one
of complete felicity. Indeed, in 2 Cor. 5:1–5 Paul seems to shrink
before the prospect of dying and going to heaven prior to the Parousia.

(6) Lastly, and perhaps most significantly, the Bible indicates that
heaven will experience an eschatological catastrophe that will bring
this age to a close. Heaven and earth were created together (Gen. 1:1),
they will experience dissolution together (Isa. 51:6), and they will be
redeemed together. In Mt. 24:29 Jesus said that “the powers of the
heavens will be shaken,” referring to the angelic or cosmic powers (Gk
*dynámeis*) that are “in the heavenly places” (Eph. 6:12): the heavens
will perish (Ps. 102:26–28; Isa. 34:4), but they will be remade (cf.
Isa. 65:17; 66:22).

It is in the NT that this final catastrophic judgment of heaven is
clearly seen (cf. He. 1:10–12). He. 12:6, which refers to Hag. 2:6, says
that the Lord will shake “not only the earth but also [Gk *allá kaí*]
the heaven,” with this adversative construction stressing heaven’s
participation in the final cataclysm. Not only the visible, celestial
heavens will be destroyed, but rather heaven in its entirety is
subjected to the judgment of God. He. 1:10 and 2 Pet. 3:7, 10, 12 stress
the plural “heavens” (*ouranoí*), which is explained not only with
reference to the commonly used Heb plural *šāmayim* but also by the
Jewish belief in the plurality of the heavens (cf. 2 Cor. 12:2).

Whereas other religions often conceive of heaven, the beyond, as the
place of complete felicity and look upon the celestial sphere as a place
of pure light and untainted glory, the NT tradition never entertains
such thinking. Rather, heaven was and is, even in the period after
Christ, a place of conflict. God exercises wrath against the demonic
attack that threatens to remove Him from his sovereign throne. It is
this representation, the picture of a total age including the heavens of
this age taken up in the catastrophe of evil, which finds normative
expression in the NT. Thus the Christian does not seek ultimate release
in this age or in the heaven of this age, for this age is impregnated
with evil and hence subject to wrath. Rather, those who are “in Christ”
here on earth and those who are “with Christ” in heaven anticipate that
splendid day when Christ the Lord shall appear and by divine power end
the demonic threat and inaugurate the coming age of glory. Then shall
the saints of God fully rejoice and in transformed bodies eternally
reign with the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit in the new heavens and new
earth. *See also* Heavens, New.

***Bibliography***.—H. Bietenhard, *Die himmlische Welt im Urchristentum
und Spätjudentum* (1951); K. Schilder, *Heaven: What Is It*? (Engtr
1950); U. Simon, *Heaven in the Christian Tradition* (1958); W. M.
Smith, *Biblical Doctrine of Heaven* (1968); C. R. Schoonhoven, *Wrath
of Heaven* (1966); TDNT, V, sv οὐρανόϚχτλ. (Traub).

C. R. Schoonhoven

**From Wycliffe Bible Encyclopedia**

The word **heaven**, or the heavens, is used in the Scriptures in a
number of different senses. In the most general of these it includes all
that is distinguished from the earth. When employed this way, the words
heaven and earth exclude one another; but when taken together, the two
embrace all the universe of God (Gen 1:1). In this sense, the term often
is used metaphorically. For example, “From one end of heaven to the
other” (Mt 24:31), and “from the one side of heaven unto the other”
(Deut 4:32).

In a more limited sense the word is employed to describe the atmosphere
which surrounds the earth. Thus we read of the “dew of heaven” (Dan
4:15), the “clouds of heaven” (Dan 7:13), and of heaven giving rain (Jas
5:18). *See* Sky. Again, the word often includes more than just that
which is comprehended within the earth’s atmosphere. It is used to
embrace all that is visible in the expanse of the universe above man. It
would be impossible to set specific limits to the visible expanse of
space which stretches away to unknown heights; but as such, the term
heaven includes the vast realm in which are the sun, the moon, the
planets, and the stars (Gen 1:16, 17).

From the theological standpoint, unquestionably the most important use
of the term heaven is with reference to the invisible realm of which the
visible may be simply the fringe nearest to man. This is the heaven
which is best described as God’s dwelling place. Before the Christian
era, the Jews divided the heavens into seven different strata, a notion
which has no basis in the Scriptures, although Paul speaks of having
been “caught up to the third heaven” (II Cor 12:2). Unquestionably, the
apostle is speaking of the heaven which is the abiding place of God and
the blessed dead. The fact that he uses the expression “third heaven”
means that he was referring either to heaven in its most exalted
character, or to the heaven which is reached by the souls of the blessed
when they have passed through the two lower regions of the atmosphere
and of outer space containing the celestial bodies. The term “heaven of
heavens” (Deut 10:14; I Kgs 8:27; Ps 68:33; 148:4) literally render the
Heb. idiom for the superlative, “the highest heaven.” It may express our
concept of the uttermost reaches of the universe.

When we speak of heaven as God’s dwelling place, or the place where His
presence is made manifest, we do not transgress the doctrine of His
divine omnipresence. Though the Lord speaks of coming from heaven and
going to heaven, He is infinite and therefore manifests Himself where He
already was. (John 1:18) implies that when the Lord was on earth He was
in the bosom of the Father. We simply recognize that the description of
infinite divine realities must be given to finite human minds in terms
they can understand. Much of the description of heaven in this its
strictest sense is given in figurative terms, because it is impossible
to express heavenly things except in figurative language which is often
symbolical. This language, however, does not at all mean that there is
nothing literal about heaven and that it is simply a state or a
condition. Jesus said, “I go to prepare *a place* for you” (Jn 14:2).
Christ lives forever in His glorified resurrection body. There must be a
place where He dwells with His saints. *See*Abraham’s Bosom; Father’s
House.

Certain things are clearly revealed in the Scriptures concerning heaven.
Considerable attention is given to the things which are *not* to be
found there. For example, there will be no marrying or giving in
marriage (Lk 20:34–36). There will be no tears, death, sorrow, crying,
or pain, nothing that defiles, and no more curse. There will be no
night, nor will there be need for light, because the Son of God will be
the light of heaven (Rev 21:4, 27; 22:3, 5).

In addition to the negative description, certain facts are delineated
concerning the inhabitants and the activities of heaven. (1) Here, God
is present in a special sense, dispensing judgment, grace and glory. We
pray to Him as “our Father which art in heaven” (Mt 6:9; *cf.* also Jon
1:9; Rev 11:13; Ps 2:4; 14:2; 102:19; 103:19; Isa 33:5; 66:1). (2) Jesus
Christ descended from heaven (Jn 3:13) and He was taken up into heaven
(Acts 1:9–10; 3:21). He is presently at the right hand of God, making
intercession for His saints (Heb 7:25; Rom 8:34), and from this place He
will come again to judge the quick and the dead (Mt 24:30). (3) Redeemed
souls are presently with Christ in heaven (*see* Intermediate State). At
least two OT saints, Enoch and Elijah, were translated into heaven (II
Kgs 2:1, 11; Heb 11:5). All the redeemed shall ultimately be in heaven
in their resurrection bodies when He comes from heaven for them (I Thess
4:16–17; Rev 19:1–4). Furthermore, their treasures and rewards await the
saints in heaven (Mt 5:12; I Pet 1:4; II Cor 5:1). (4) Heaven is the
dwelling place of angelic beings (Mt 18:10; Eph 1:10; Heb 12:22) and
from thence they go to minister to the inhabitants of the earth (Lk
2:13–15; 22:43).

*See also* Eternal State and Death; Jersualem; New Heavens and New
Earth.

***Bibliography***. Calvin D. Linton, “What’s So Great About Heaven?”
ChT, XV (Nov. 20, 1970), 163 ff. H. Harold Mare, “The New Testament
Concept Regarding the Regions of Heaven with Emphasis on II Cor 12:1–4,”
*Grace Journal*, XI (1970), 3–12. Wilbur M. Smith, *The Biblical
Doctrine of Heaven*, Chicago: Moody Press, 1968, with comprehensive
bibliography. Helmut Traub and Gerhard von Rad, “*Ouranos*, etc.,”
TDNT,V, 497–543.

R. G. R.

