---
title: "Hellenists and Arameans"
pdf: "hellenistsarameans.pdf"
description: "the differences between traditional Judaism and the \"modern\" Greek culture of the 1st century, affected even the early Christian congregations (Acts 6:1 ff)."
template: topic.jade
---


**Hellenists and Arameans 3**

**Hellenists and Arameans**

from Conybeare and Howson, “The Life and Epistles of St. Paul,” Chapter
2.

We have seen that early colonies of the Jews were settled in Babylonia
and Mesopotamia. Their connection with their brethren in Judea was
continually maintained; and they were bound to them by the link of a
common language. The Jews of Palestine and Syria, with those who lived
on the Tigris and Euphrates, interpreted the Scriptures through the
Targums, or Chaldean paraphrases, and spoke kindred dialects of the
language of Aram; and hence they were called Aramean Jews.

We have also had occasion to notice that other dispersion of the nation
through those countries where Greek was spoken. Their settlements began
with Alexander’s conquests and were continued under the successors of
those who partitioned his empire. Alexandria was their capital. They use
the Septuagint translation of the Bible, and they were commonly called
Hellenists, or Jews of the Grecian speech.

The mere difference of language would account in some degree for the
mutual dislike with which we know that these two sections of the Jewish
race regarded one another. We were all aware how closely the use of a
hereditary dialect is bound up with the warmest feelings of the heart.
And in this case the Aramean language was the sacred tongue of
Palestine. It is true that the tradition of the language of the Jews had
been broken, as the continuity of their political life had been rudely
interrupted. The Hebrew of the time of Christ was not the oldest Hebrew
of the Israelites; but it was a kindred dialect, and old enough to
command a reverent affections. Though not the language of Moses and
David, it was that of Ezra and Nehemiah. And it is not unnatural that
the Arameans should have revolted from the speech of the Greek idolaters
and the tyrant Antiochus, a speech which they associated moreover with
innovating doctrines and dangerous speculations.

For the division went deeper than a mere superficial diversity of
speech. It was not only a division, like the modern one of German and
Spanish Jews, where those who hold substantially the same doctrines have
accidentally been led to speak different languages. But there was
diversity of religious views and opinions. This is not the place for
examining that system of mystic interpretation called the Kabbala, and
for determining how far its origin might be due to Alexandria or to
Babylon. It is enough to say, generally, that in the Aramean theology,
Oriental elements prevailed rather than Greek, and that the subject of
Babylonian influences has more connection with the life of St. Peter
than that of St. Paul.

The Hellenists, on the other hand, were Jews who spoke Greek, who lived
in Greek countries, and were influenced by Greek civilization, are
associated in the closest manner with the Apostle of the Gentiles. They
are more than once mentioned in the Acts, where our English translation
names them “Grecians” to distinguish them from the heather or proselyte
“Greeks.” Alexandria was the metropolis of their theology. Philo was
their great representative. He was an old man when St. Paul was in his
maturity; his writings were probably known to the apostles; and they
have descended with the inspired Epistles to our own day. The work of
the learned Hellenists may be briefly described as this – to accommodate
Jewish doctrines to the mind of the Greeks, and to make the Greek
language express the mind of the Jews. The Hebrew principles were
“disengaged as much as possible from local and national conditions, and
presented in a form adapted to the Hellenic world.”

All this was hateful to the Arameans. The men of the East rose up
against those of the West. The Greek learning was repugnant to the
strict Hebrews. They had a saying, “Cursed be he who teacheth his son
the learning of the Greeks.” We could imagine them using the words of
the prophet Joel (3:6), “The children of Judah and the children of
Jerusalem have ye sold unto the Grecians, that ye might remove them from
their border,” and we cannot be surprised that even in the deep peace
and charity of the Church’s earliest days, this inveterate division
reappeared, and that “when the number of the disciples was multiplied,
there arose a murmuring of the Grecians against the Hebrews.” (Acts 6:1)

It would be an interesting subject of inquiry to ascertain in what
proportions these two parties were distributed in the different
countries where the Jews were dispersed, in what places they can into
the strongest collision, and how far they were fused and united
together. In the city of Alexandria, the emporium of Greek commerce from
the time of its foundation, where, since the earliest Ptolemies,
literature, philosophy, and criticism had never ceased to excite the
utmost intellectual activity, where the Septuagint translation of the
Scripture had been made, and where a Jewish temple and ceremonial
worship had been established in rivalry to that in Jerusalem, there is
no doubt that the Hellenistic element largely prevailed. But although
(strictly speaking) the –Alexandrian Jews were nearly all Hellenites, it
does not follow that they were all Hellenizers. In other words, although
their speech and the Scriptures were Greek, the theological views of
many among them undoubtedly remained Hebrew.

There must have been many who were attached to the traditions of
Palestine, and who looked suspiciously on their more speculative
brethren; and we have no difficulty in recognizing the picture presented
in a pleasing German fiction, which describes the debates and struggles
of the two tendencies in this city, to be very correct. In Palestine
itself, we have every reason to believe that the native population was
entirely Aramean, though there was no lack of Hellenistic synagogues
(see Acts 6:9) in Jerusalem, which at the seasons of the festivals would
be crowded with foreign pilgrims, and become the scene of animated
discussions. Syria was connected by the link of language with Palestine
and Babylonia; but Antioch, its metropolis, commercially and
politically, resembled Alexandria; and it is probable that, when
Barnabas and Saul were establishing the great Christian community in
that city, the majority of the Jews were “Grecians” rather than
“Hebrews.” In Asia Minor we should at first sight be tempted to imagine
that the Grecian tendency would predominate; but when we find that
Antiochus brought Babylonian Jews into Lydia and Phrygia, we must not
make too confident a conclusion in this direction. We have ground for
imagining that many Israelitish families in the remote districts
(possibly that of Timotheus at Lystra) may have cherished the forms of
the traditional faith of the eastern Jews, and lived uninfluenced by
Hellenistic novelties.

The residents in maritime and commercial towns would not be strangers to
the western developments of religious doctrines; and when Apollos came
from Alexandria to Ephesus (Acts 18:24), he would find himself in a
theological atmosphere not very different from that of his native city.
Tarsus in Cilicia will naturally be included under the same class of
cities of the West, by those who remember Strabo’s assertion that in
literature and philosophy its fame exceeded that of Athens and
Alexandria. At the same time, we cannot be sure that the very celebrity
of its heathen schools might not induce the families of Jewish residents
to retire all the more strictly into a religious Hebrew seclusion.

That such a seclusion of their family from Gentile influences was
maintained by the parents of St. Paul is highly probable. We have no
means of knowing how long they themselves, or their ancestors, had been
Jews of the dispersion. A tradition is mentioned by Jerome that they
cane originally from Giscala, a town in Galilee, when it was stormed by
the Romans. The story involves an anachronism and contradicts the Acts
of the Apostles (Acts 22:3). Yet it need not be entirely disregarded,
especially when we find St. Paul speaking of himself as “a Hebrew of the
Hebrews” and when we remember that the word “Hebrew” is used for an
Aramaic Jew, as opposed to a “Grecian” or “Hellenist.” Nor is it
unlikely in itself that before they settled in Tarsus, the family had
belonged to the Eastern dispersion, or to the Jews of Palestine. But,
however this may be, St. Paul himself must be called a Hellenist;
because the language of his infancy was that idiom of the Grecian Jews
in which all his letters were written. Though, in conformity with the
strong feeling of the Jews of all times, he might learn his earliest
sentences from the Scripture in Hebrew, yet he was familiar with the
Septuagint translation at an early age.

It is observed that when he quotes from the Old Testament, his
quotations are from that version/ and that, not only when he cites its
very words, but when (as if often the case) he quotes it from memory.
Considering the accurate knowledge of the original Hebrew which he must
have acquired under Gamaliel at Jerusalem, it has been inferred that
this can only arise from his having been thoroughly imbued at an earlier
period with the Hellenistic scriptures. The readiness, too, with which
he expressed himself in Greek, even before such an audience as that upon
the Areopagus at Athens, shows a command of the language which a Jew
would not, in all probability, have attained, had not Greek been the
familiar speech of his childhood.

But still the vernacular Hebrew of Palestine would not have been a
foreign tongue to the infant Saul; on the contrary, he may have heard it
spoken almost as often as the Greek. For no doubt his parents, proud of
their Jewish origin, and living comparatively near to Palestine, would
retain the power of conversing with their friends from there in the
ancient speech.. Mercantile connections from the Syrian coast would be
frequently arriving, whose discourse would be in Aramaic; and in all
probability there were kinsfolk still settled in Judea, as we afterwards
find the nephew of St. Paul in Jerusalem (Acts 23:16).

We may compare the situation of such a family (so far as concerns heir
language) to that of the French Huguenots who settled in London after
the revocation of the Edict of Nantes. These French families, though
they soon learned to use the English as the medium of the common
intercourse and the language of their household, yet, for several
generations, spoke French with equal familiarity and greater affection.

Moreover, it may be considered as certain that the family of St. Paul,
though Hellenistic in speech, were no Hellenizers in theology; they were
not at all inclined to adopt Greek habits or Greek opinions. The manner
in which St. Paul speaks of himself, his father, and his ancestors,
implies the most uncontaminated hereditary Judaism. “Are they Hebrews?
So am I. Are they Israelites? So am I\> Are they the seed of Abraham? So
am I.” (2 Cor. 11:22) “A Pharisee” and “the son of a Pharisee.”
“Circumcised the eighth day, of the stock of Israel, of the tribe of
Benjamin, a Hebrew of the Hebrews.”

