---
title: "Hellenism"
pdf: "hellenism.pdf"
description: "A short study of the Greek thinking that influenced the thinking and culture of those Jewish people who were educated in Greek philosophy and culture."
tableOfContents: true
template: topic.jade
---

Hellenism is a term that may be used in various senses: it has sometimes
been applied to the whole of distinctively Greek culture, including that
of the days before Alexander the Great (336–323 B.C.); it is more
commonly employed, however, of the civilization that spread through much
of the ancient world in the wake of Alexander’s conquests. We shall here
use it in this latter sense.

**I. Introduction**

Alexander’s conquests covered an immense area and brought him
sovereignty over many nations. He proposed to solve the problems of
ruling so heterogeneous a group of people and bringing coherence into
his empire by eschewing a narrow nationalism and imposing a culture that
would transcend national boundaries, in which all people could be at
home. Basically, this meant that the Greek way of life would be extended
to the non-Greeks, but in the process there ensued an amalgam of Greek
and non-Greek ideas, so that the resulting Hellenism was far from being
purely Greek. Nevertheless, Greek culture dominated the whole, and the
result is not unjustly called Hellenism.

Sometimes Greek influence concerned more or less surface matters like
the wearing of Greek dress, or athletic contests modeled after the Greek
games. Sometimes it penetrated deeply into the realms of religion and
philosophy. Hellenism was all-embracing. Alexander encouraged a thorough
mixing of the conquerors and the conquered by intermarriage. He himself
set the example and many of his officers and men likewise married women
from the conquered peoples. Alexander died too soon to be able to
accomplish his aim, but the policy of hellenization lived on after him.

We should not understand this as an unwelcome policy ruthlessly enforced
from above. Doubtless it was this in some cases, and it was in this way
that the Jews, for example, encountered it. Yet even they used the
language and accepted some of the ideas, although many of them rejected
the religion and the immorality. On the whole, people eagerly welcomed
Hellenism. The Greeks had notable scholars, artists, and scientists, and
many were impressed by the superiority of the Greek achievement. Thus
people everywhere were ready to learn the language and adopt the culture
of the conquering Greeks. It became fashionable to adopt the latest
Greek fads.

The small city-state of earlier days seems to have been at the basis of
the greatest Greek achievements. At their highest and best, Greek art
and thought have never been surpassed in the minds of many. Names like
Plato and Phidias conjure up thoughts of an excellence of which any
civilization might well be proud. The little city-states of ancient
Greece produced a notable group of outstanding men. Curiously, this did
not persist when Greece became one nation and developed into a mighty
empire. But although the city-state produced the men and the ideas, it
was by means of the empire that the ideas were effectively spread abroad
among the greatest number of people. Many factors were involved, but we
shall concentrate only on the following.

**II. Greek Language**

This was a potent force in the whole process. It became fnown in most
places, with the result that it became a kind of *lingua franca*. It was
a great convenience for the first Christian missionaries that when they
went abroad with the gospel they did not have to learn another language.
All over the known world people were brought in contact with one another
by the medium of the Greek tongue; a further advantage was that with
Greek they had access to the treasures of Greek literature.

**III. Cosmopolitanism**

To a questioner who asked to what country he belonged, Socrates is said
to have replied, “I am a citizen of the world”; and Diogenes gave his
adherence to the same concept when he called himself *kosmopolitex*
“world-citizen.” In the days of the city-state, people had tended to
confine themselves largely to local affairs; but with the stirring of
the pulses brought about by Alexander’s conquests and the consequent
contact with new lands and peoples, people began to look down on narrow
nationalism and to cultivate an outlook on life that deserved the name
“cosmopolitan.” This did not mean that on occasion there might not be a
concentration on purely local issues, but it did mean that merely local
concerns were never allowed to dominate.

This caused trouble for “provincials” like the Jews and later the
Christians. When people of every nation other than the Jewish found it
quite possible to subject local customs and ideas to cosmopolitan ones,
it was a mystery to cultured people why the Jews could not.
Specifically, the Jewish and Christian refusal to conform to custom by
accepting a mild form of idolatry did not make sense to the Hellenists,
who did not take the gods very seriously and could not see why these
provincials did. When we read of Jews or Christians who came into
conflict with those who embodied the Hellenistic spirit we should not
understand this as a purely local clash. Nor, at least as far as the
Hellenists were concerned, was it a purely religious issue. For them it
represented a conflict between a small group with a provincial outlook
and many others who had a worldwide outlook. The cosmopolitans never
could understand the obstinacy with which the provincials clung to their
narrow outlook.

**IV. Greek Science**

The Greek spirit of free inquiry found outlet in many directions, and
the scientific contributions of the age were impressive. In astronomy,
the Ptolemaic geocentric picture of the universe is noteworthy. In the
pre-Ptolemaic period many Greeks had quite different ideas, some
thinking of the earth as a sphere moving around the sun. R. H. Pfeiffer
draws attention to the work of Aristarchus of Samos, who gauged the
sun’s volume to be three hundred times that of the earth. He concluded
from this and other considerations that the earth rotates on its axis
and moves around the sun (HNTT, p. 112). With the acceptance of the
Ptolemaic system, people came to think of the earth as central to the
universe and of the sun, moon, and planets as moving around it. Another
notable scientific feat was that of Eratosthenes of Cyrene, who
calculated the circumference of the earth at 252,000 stadia. This has
been worked out as 39,681 km (24,662 mi), not so very far from modern
measurements. The mathematical studies of Euclid and the discoveries of
Archimedes in the physical sciences are so well known they hardly need
mentioning. It was a period when people were discovering a great variety
of things about their environment.

**V. Literature**

People were not interested only in scientific endeavor, for the
humanities thrived as well and literature was popular. Poets like
Callimachus of Cyrene and Theocritus of Syracuse flourished, and some
poets wrote on more or less scientific themes. Menander wrote widely
acclaimed comedies.

Special mention should be made of the historians. Hellenistic historians
did not understand their task in quite the same way as does the modern
scientific historian, being more concerned with the dramatic and the
sensational. The abbreviator of Jason of Cyrene, who produced 2
Maccabees, tells us in well-known words: “We have aimed to please those
who wish to read, to make it easy for those who are inclined to
memorize, and to profit all readers” (2 Macc. 2:25). This was the kind
of thing at which many historians aimed, and the results were varied.
Some were too concerned with the pleasant and let the claims of literary
form override respect for the facts; others were too didactic. But the
best of them produced valuable histories, e.g., Polybius, who is
normally regarded as first-rate. Josephus is another whose history is
both well known and valuable. We owe a good deal to the historiographers
of the Hellenistic period, even if we must be on our guard against
attaching too much weight to the propagandizing and the striving for
dramatic effect that characterizes some of them.

**VI. Philosophy**

Philosophy was, of course, a prime interest of cultured Greeks. The
great traditions of Plato and Aristotle were continued, although perhaps
the best-known school was that of the Stoics. Many were attracted by its
solutions of metaphysical problems and by its offer of peace of mind.
Others were followers of Epicurus, though one should bear in mind that
in modern times his teaching has often been misrepresented. He taught
that pleasure is the aim of life, but he did not conceive of pleasure in
merely sensual terms, since he held that it is virtue that enables one
to enjoy true pleasure. Other schools also flourished and philosophical
views varied greatly, including some that were highly skeptical. It is
clear that the Greeks of this age took great delight in wrestling with
profound problems and in examining critically the solutions others put
forward.

They were not, however, concerned with only purely theoretical issues.
Many of them were profoundly interested in ethics and made every effort
to promote virtue. One reason why some philosophers were not interested
in religion was that the religions they knew did little to promote
morality. It is true that the philosophers found it difficult to achieve
the ethical standards they advocated, but at least they were concerned
with getting people to lead good lives.

They taught people not to be dominated by their passions. Detachment was
a necessary characteristic of the wise person, and it enabled him to
rise above the promptings of his own lower nature. Many saw mankind as
nothing but the plaything of a blind fate. But the philosopher did not
allow himself to yield to despair, aspiring, rather, to a freedom of
spirit that would enable him to rise above the circumstances of life.

**VII. Religion**

The Hellenistic world had many religions, though some of the variety was
mitigated by the tendency to regard a god worshiped in one place under
one name as identical with another god worshiped elsewhere under another
name. Thus the Greek Zeus was identified with the Roman Jupiter.
Hellenistic religion is of perennial interest to the Christian, for some
maintain that certain features of Christianity are derived from the
Hellenistic religious environment. Traditional Greek religion, centering
on the gods of Olympus, had little influence at this time, for the
development of Greek thought had deprived the earlier myths of their
credibility. This does not mean that nobody took the Olympian deities
seriously; some people undoubtedly did, although for most people there
was no dynamic, no conviction in the official cultus.

It was otherwise with the mystery religions. Some, like the Eleusinian
mysteries, were Greek and ancient. But more typically, they were
comparatively recent arrivals from the East that flourished when
transplanted to the West. Not a great deal is known about the details of
these cults, for the devotees vowed to keep secret what went on and the
vows must have been quite well kept. It is known, however, that the
members were put through a horrifying initiation, which led to an
experience of peace. The adherents were given the promise of
immortality. These cults had an enthusiasm and a vitality that was
lacking in the official Olympian religion. Thus they made a wide appeal
and were a witness to the unsatisfied longings of the human heart.

The Eleusinian mysteries go back to great antiquity and, while not
strictly Hellenistic, are typical of much Hellenistic religion. They
center on the spring rites with the thought of the deity dying and
rising again. The ritual was accompanied by the myth that told of
Persephone, the daughter of Demeter, being carried off to the underworld
by Hades, and of how eventually she was released for more than half of
each year. Some of the other mysteries seem to have been of essentially
the same type, such as those of Dionysus, Adonis, and Osiris, though
each had its own variations. Thus the Dionysian rites were characterized
by a wild ecstasy. Female devotees (the maenads) would be caught up in a
supposedly divine frenzy in which they tore apart living animals and ate
their bloody flesh.

Orphism was another religion with an air of wildness about it, though we
should also notice that it had some interesting ideas about both heaven
and hell. Probably the only other such religion we should notice is
Mithraism. The worship of Mithras was of great antiquity in the East,
but it did not become important in the Roman world until the 2nd cent
A.D. Mithras underwent many transformations during his long history, but
at the time of his popularity in the West he appears to have been a sun
god especially beloved by soldiers. It was the Roman legions who carried
his worship everywhere. Associated with it was the taurobolium, a rite
in which the initiate was placed in a pit covered with boards on which a
bull was slain in such a manner that the blood flowed through and
drenched the worshiper below. He believed that he thereby was filled
with the strength and other qualities of the beast. Mithraism spread
widely during the early centuries of our era and some scholars have seen
it as a serious threat to Christianity. But it faded away before the
reality and the vitality of the Christian faith.

Various Hellenistic religions contain parallels to Christian rites and
teachings, which some of the Apostolic Fathers explained as parodies
inspired by the devil. There is no reason for holding, as do some, that
the Christians borrowed from the Hellenistic cults. While there is no
reason why Christianity should not have taken over what was good from
any source, the facts seem to show that Christianity was not inspired by
the mysteries. It arose, rather, from the revelation made in the OT
followed by the coming of the Son of God. Christianity brought people a
real salvation, one accomplished by the Son of God Himself. The
Hellenistic religions witness to the deep longings and needs of the
human soul, but they cannot satisfy them. God in Christ does.

**Bibliography**

E. Bevan, Hellenism and Christianity (1921)

R. Bultmann, Primitive Christianity in Its Contemporary Setting (1956);

J. Daniélou, Gospel Message and Hellenistic Culture (Engtr 1973);

F. C. Grant, Roman Hellenism and the New Testament (1962);

E. Hatch, Influence of Greek Ideas on Christianity (1957); HNTT pp.
93–165;

M. Hengel, Judaism and Hellenism (Engtr 1974);

A. D. Nock, Early Gentile Christianity and Its Hellenistic Background
(1964).

