---
title: "Hermeneutics, Syllabus of Studies in"
pdf: "hermeneutics_chafer.pdf"
description: "A classical study in Hermeneutics, by Rollin Thomas Chafer. Used in Pastor's Ministry Workshop of Austin Bible Church"
template: lesson.jade
---


***Austin Bible Church***

**Pastor’s Ministry Workshop**

Pastor Robert Bolender

**A Syllabus of Studies in Hermeneutics**

by Rollin Thomas Chafer

**A Syllabus of Studies in Hermeneutics**

by Rollin Thomas Chafer

**Contents**

**[Part 1 1](#__RefHeading___Toc133033238)**

[I Introduction 1](#__RefHeading___Toc133033239)

**[Part 2 4](#__RefHeading___Toc133033240)**

[II. Historical Sketch 4](#__RefHeading___Toc133033241)

**[Part 3 9](#__RefHeading___Toc133033242)**

[II Historical Sketch (continued) 9](#__RefHeading___Toc133033243)

**[Part 4 11](#__RefHeading___Toc133033244)**

[III Some Axioms of General Hermeneutics
11](#__RefHeading___Toc133033245)

**[Part 5 14](#__RefHeading___Toc133033246)**

[IV The Relation of Logic to Interpretation
14](#__RefHeading___Toc133033247)

**[Part 6 29](#__RefHeading___Toc133033248)**

[IV The Relation of Logic to Interpretation (continued)
29](#__RefHeading___Toc133033249)

**[Part 7 35](#__RefHeading___Toc133033250)**

[V Four Prerequisites 35](#__RefHeading___Toc133033251)

[VI Four General Rules of Interpretation
39](#__RefHeading___Toc133033252)

**[Part 8 41](#__RefHeading___Toc133033253)**

[VII Figurative Language 41](#__RefHeading___Toc133033254)

[VIII Accommodation 44](#__RefHeading___Toc133033255)

[IX Interpretation of Prophecy 46](#__RefHeading___Toc133033256)

Part 1
======

I Introduction
--------------

Biblical Hermeneutics receives scant attention in the modern theological
curriculum. Even before the time of the virtual abandonment by liberal
seminaries of the idea that the Scriptures are the authoritative source
of Christian dogmatics, the study of Hermeneutics was relegated mostly
to the department of Old Testament. At the same time, it too often
degenerated into an arbitrary classification of favorite interpretations
which were dictated by accepted creedal dicta, rather than by the
application of the laws governing logical interpretative procedure. It
seems certain that the thought that Hermeneutics as a science has to do
with the mastery and the applicability of the *laws* governing
interpretation was too often forgotten.

Terry does indeed draw a distinction between Hermeneutics as a *science*
engaged with the study of the governing laws, on the one hand, and
Hermeneutics as an *art* concerned with the concrete application of the
laws, on the other hand;<sup>**[<sup>1</sup>](#sdfootnote1sym)**</sup>
but the latter seems to me to be but another description of exegetical
praxis. In the closing words of his first chapter Terry senses this when
he says: “For if ever the divinely appointed ministry of reconciliation
accomplish the perfecting of the saints, and the building up of the body
of Christ, so as to bring all to the attainment of the unity of the
faith and of the knowledge of the Son of God (Eph 4:12, 13), it must be
done by a correct interpretation and efficient use of the word of God.
The interpretation and application of that word must rest upon a sound
and self-evidencing science of
hermeneutics.”<sup>**[<sup>2</sup>](#sdfootnote2sym)**</sup>

Perhaps no widely quoted hermeneut has more consistently emphasized the
essential fact that Biblical Hermeneutics is, first of all, a study of
the *laws* which govern sound Biblical interpretation than the late M.
Cellérier, Professor in the Academy of Geneva, Switzerland, whose
*Manuel d’Hermeneutique Biblique* was in large part made available to
American readers in a translation and revision by Elliott and Harsha,
published in 1881. In the first four chapters of his work he reiterates
and emphasizes this definition at the beginning of each section as
though he were seeking to combat an erroneous conception of the science:
“Hermeneutics is the science which furnishes the true principles of
interpretation.”

We must insist again that Hermeneutics is not a collection of favorite
interpretations gleaned here and there from a bibliography of
interpretative writings. A hermeneut is one who, through familiarity of
the laws governing sound procedure in the interpretation of the
Scriptures, is thereby enabled to test any and all interpretations of
the Word of God presented to him. Apart from this thorough understanding
of the governing laws he must be dependent upon the opinions of other
men.

The necessity of being guided by sound laws is sharply brought out by
Lockhart in the second chapter of his *Principles of Interpretation*,
wherein he lists fifteen axioms, one of which is here cited: “The true
object of interpretation is to apprehend the exact thought of the
author.” On this Dr. Lockhart comments: “It is not the privilege of any
interpreter to impose his own thought upon the words of an author, nor
in any way to modify the author’s meaning.” The moment that one allows
himself this privilege he ceases to be an interpreter and becomes a
collaborator with the author. To essay this role with the Spirit Author
of the Scriptures should give pause to a larger number of careless
interpreters than is daily evident.

Several standard works on Hermeneutics describe the relative place this
science occupies in Theological Encyclopedia and Methodology. One of the
most concise statements is made by Cellérier and is as follows:

“(a) The Christian divine, called to expound and interpret the Word of
God, ought first to explain the history, the circumstances, and the form
of the Bible. This is the first object of Introduction, or *Isagogics*.
[This is often called the Higher Criticism, and the student should keep
in mind that there is a vast field of constructive higher criticism as
well as the destructive variety. The term, “higher criticism” should be
used with qualifying adjectives].

“(b) He must, in the second place, determine, as nearly as possible, the
true and original text; and endeavor to disengage it from the numerous
variations with which eighteen centuries of citations and transcriptions
have encumbered it. This is the object of the *Criticism of the Text*.”
[Often called the *Lower Criticism*].

“(c) Before attempting the explanation of the phrases and ideas of the
Bible, a third test, and the most important of all, is necessary. The
theologian should understand the principles, according to which they
must be explained. The exposition of these principles receives the name
of *Hermeneutics*.”

“(d) After these three successive processes have been finished, the
Biblical interpreter enters upon his work. He reads, he analyzes, he
develops, he comments on the Holy Word, line after line. He no longer
constructs a science; he practices an art-*Exegetics*: he accomplishes a
task - *Exegesis*.”<sup>**[<sup>3</sup>](#sdfootnote3sym)**</sup>

Although the word *Exposition* is often used as a synonym for
*Exegesis*, in popular usage it is more often used to represent the
popular platform presentation of the results of exegetical study.

In the field of Biblical interpretation there are two principal methods
of procedure:

(1) that which functions inductively within the sphere of the Scripture
testimony; and

(2) that which approaches the Scriptures wholly or partly from without,
and which is deductive in method.

It was a favorite classroom saying of the late Dr. B. B. Warfield that
“all theologies divide at one point - does God save men or do they save
themselves?” As truly it may be said that all systems of Bible
interpretation divide at one point-is the Bible a self-interpreting book
or does it require a humanly contrived system of interpretation in order
to be understood? In other words, does the Bible contain its own
hermeneutical laws which are sufficient, and capable, when rightly
understood and followed, of guiding the student to a correct
interpretation of its own disclosures: or is it deficient in such
interpretational provisions, and therefore dependent upon the resources
of human reason to supply that lack?

Intelligently or unintelligently, Bible students in general follow the
principles of one or the other of these alternative systems, either
wholly or in part. It is a startling fact that many students who assert
their belief that the Bible is revelation from God, divinely inspired,
accept the latter alternative without realizing its logical
implications. To hold that human reason-and how often the phrase occurs
in connection with this or that interpretation, “it is not reasonable in
the light of present-day knowledge”-is the final arbiter, even in moot
questions, leads to definite experimental results in the student himself
and eventually leads to the conclusion that it is admissible to
accommodate particular Scripture passages to harmonize with
extra-Biblical hypotheses.

Writing concerning the work of the students at the Harvard Medical
College, Jerry McQuade said: “Psychologists classify men into two
types-the type which accepts whatever is told to them as a predigested
compendium of all that they should know, and never ask any further
questions; hence quietly pass into oblivion, and the type, which feels
the impulse of life and the thirst to ask why, wherefore, whither, how;
hence etch deep on the tablet of time for the ages to come.”

There are two groups of theological students which may be classed under
Mr. McQuade’s first type. The first group comprises those who accept
without question what they are taught by heterodox teachers. The members
of this group, with few exceptions, become ministers of mere human
righteousness, and therefore tools of Satan.

The other group represents those who, professing orthodoxy, also follow
the line of least resistance and adopt without question interpretative
teachings, furnished in predigested form, which may or may not have been
formulated in accordance with sound laws of Biblical interpretation.
Failing to gain a first-hand experience in the application of the
fundamental principles of Biblical hermeneutics by which they may test
the Scripturalness of all teachings, the members of this group become
mere echoing mouthpieces of other men’s theological and creedal
opinions, a state which is intolerable to an honest student, and one
which is destructive of self-respect, intellectual and spiritual.

In schools of theology, as in other technical institutions, here and
there are found students who may be classified under Mr. McQuade’s
second type, diligently seeking the Biblical “why, wherefore, whither,
how,” of every teaching, not content with the rumination of predigested
theological dicta. Bringing to their task believing hearts and a
dependence upon the illumination of the Spirit Author, they truly
prepare to “etch deep on the tablet of time.” Moreover, as in the case
of no other class of technicians their work is peculiarly preserved to
shine not only during time but in eternity.

Biblical interpretation, in contrast to the systems dictated by human
reason, is inextricably bound up with intelligent and acceptable
Christian service. There is no appeal to human reason in Paul’s word to
Timothy: “The husbandman that laboreth must be first partaker of the
fruits. Consider what I say; and the Lord give thee understanding in all
things” (2 Tim 2:6, 7). It is indeed true that the Lord gives the
understanding, but he imparts this richly to those who, with believing
hearts, heed that further injunction to Timothy: “Study to shew thyself
approved unto God, a workman that needeth not to be ashamed, rightly
dividing the word of truth” (v. 15).

Part 2
======

II. Historical Sketch
---------------------

Brief historical outlines of the development of Biblical Hermeneutics
are found in several of the standard texts on this
science.<sup>**[<sup>4</sup>](#sdfootnote4sym)**</sup> These writers
agree that Hermeneutics as a formulated science had no existence before
the Reformation. Comparatively speaking, it is a newcomer in the family
of subjects constituting Theological Encyclopedia and Methodology.
However, principles claimed to have hermeneutical value, howbeit fraught
with destructive elements, emerged in the third century and with
accretions during the following centuries persist today.

Cellérier divides the historical development of Hermeneutics into eight
(8) periods. As it is advantageous in this study to give consideration
only to the governing principles of systems that have had a marked
effect upon Biblical interpretation, details of some of these periods
which did not seriously change the trend of the science will not receive
more than cursory mention. It is of prime importance, however, to note
the sources and following development of systems that have made
permanent contributions, destructive as well as constructive, to methods
which are defended and employed by their respective endorsers up to the
present moment.

**FIRST PERIOD**. This may be disposed of in a few words. During the
first two centuries of the Christian era “Hermeneutics did not exist,
and could not exist.” Several reasons contributed to this state. The
church was harassed by persecutions, having little time for speculation
in the realm of interpretative thought. “The Church of this era was,
moreover, so near to the time of the preaching of the Apostles and of
the publication of their writings, that these were sufficiently
perspicuous and fully explained by the oral traditions so carefully
sought for at that time.” A questionable system of interpretation is
demanded only when there is a desire to avoid the application of the
plain truth. On the other hand, a sound system of hermeneutics is
essential to counteract such methods. The fact that an elaborate system
of interpretation was not needed in the immediate post-Apostolic period
is of important, nay determining, significance. It was an indication
that Apostolic authority had not in the main been abandoned, although
here and there departures from the truth were beginning to be
manifested.

**SECOND PERIOD**. In the Patristic Age which followed, far-reaching
departures from former beliefs were introduced. These changes were
engendered by the rise of a scientific spirit, encouraged largely by
philosophizing theologians of the Christian school at Alexandria, whose
methods of interpretation had been profoundly influenced by the mode of
allegorizing promulgated by Philo and the Jewish school.

Origen emerges as the most important figure of this period. A product of
the Alexandrian school, he possessed an extraordinary ability for
sustained mental labor. This industriousness coupled with a remarkable
memory won for him a reputation for scholarship. Like many scholastics,
however, he lacked the ability to think straight. His system of
interpretation constantly exhibits the fact that he ignored fundamental
laws of logic. He had been trained in a philosophy developed by the
eclectic mode as taught by Clement, rector of the school, and the new
Platonic system founded by Ammonius Saccus, his preceptor. Mosheim says:
“He held that all things that exist, whether corporeal or void of gross
matter, emanated eternally from God, the source of all things. This
first principle of the new Platonic school, derived from Egyptian
wisdom, was the basis or foundation of Origen’s
philosophy.”<sup>**[<sup>5</sup>](#sdfootnote5sym)**</sup> Finding much
in the literal statements of Scripture that was repugnant to his adopted
philosophy, he introduced three principles of interpretation by which he
attempted to harmonize the Bible to his preconceived ideas, always, it
is needless to say, at the expense of the former. The very character of
the principles themselves provided for this. These were:

**(1)*****The divinity of the Bible***. Because it is divine it cannot
contain anything unworthy of God. This statement is innocent enough, and
would meet with general agreement of believers in the Bible as the Word
of God. He qualified this, however, by saying that the Bible taken in
its plain literal sense contains much that is unworthy of God, much that
is false and misleading. Therefore human reason, proceeding on the basis
of philosophy, must be the judge as to what and what is not worthy of
God in the Scriptures. What is thus found to be unworthy must be changed
*by interpretation* to something consonant with what he considered to be
worthy of God. Thus the divine authority, governing the revelation as
transmitted through the sacred writers, was nullified in the passages
thus revised.

(**2)*****Multiple sense of the Bible***. To allow for ample latitude in
carrying out his desire to bring the Scriptures into harmony with his
philosophy, Origen adopted the doctrine of the double sense in
Scripture, passed on to him by Clement from the teaching formerly
developed by the Pharisees and Essenes. To this doctrine he committed
himself unreservedly, elaborating it into a system which included four
categories, viz.: ”*grammatical*, *moral*, *analogical or mystical*, and
*allegorical*.”

Under a method which allowed the application of these various meanings,
it is at once apparent that a Scripture might be made to mean almost
anything but the true intent of the sacred author. To preserve the
fundamentals of his philosophy at any cost, he threw logic to the winds
and distorted plain statements of revelation to fit his notions as to
what is worthy of God. On this Cellérier comments as follows: “The
principle of multiple sense, has little respect for the Scripture,
inasmuch as it delivers them over to the imagination and caprice of the
interpreter, that is, to the fancies and whims, which they ought to
control.”

The great influence of Origen’s writings resulted in widespread
acceptance of this method which was modified and in some respects
amplified during the succeeding centuries. The disastrous effects
resulting from its use will be pointed out more fully in a later section
of the Syllabus. Suffice it to say at this point that there are many
theologians claiming orthodoxy today who defend the general principles,
here outlined, in the interest of a philosophizing theology which
embodies an unscriptural world view and curtailments of other vital and
legitimate elements of the theology of the Scriptures.

**(3)*****The Mystic Force of the Bible***. Another principle which
survived only amongst extremists, was that the Bible, as a book,
possessed a mystical force which exerted an influence upon those who
read it whether they understood what they read or not. This idea may be
disposed of with two quotations, viz.: “This was a pious, but dangerous
superstition” (Cellérier); “It is pious nonsense” (Scofield).

Although attempts to formulate rules of interpretation did not result in
anything approaching a true system of hermeneutical laws, the
destructive method of allegorizing plain statements of Scripture secured
a strong foothold which has never been entirely dislodged from the
formal theologies of the various Christian faiths. To whatever extent it
has been employed it has been a blight upon hermeneutical progress and a
serious hindrance to the understanding of the divine revelation.

In order to put his system into practical use Origen formulated seven
(7) rules which resulted in replacing the authority of the Word of God
with human judgment. Of the seven rules the first two only will be cited
here:

***Rule I*****.** When the words of any passage in either Testament
afford a good sense, one worthy of God, useful to men, and accordant
with truth and sound reason,-this must be considered a sure sign that
the passage is to be taken in its literal and proper sense. But whenever
anything absurd, false, contrary to sound reason, useless, or unworthy
of God, will follow from a literal interpretation, then that
interpretation is to be abandoned, and only moral and mystical senses
are to be sought for.” ”

***Rule II*****.** Consequently, that portion of sacred history, both in
the Old Testament and the New, which narrates things probable, consonant
to reason, commendable, honest, and useful, must be supposed to state
facts, and of course must be understood literally. But that portion of
sacred history which states actions or events that are either false, or
absurd, or unbecoming of God and holy men, or useless or puerile, must
be divested of all literal meaning, and be applied to moral and mystical
things in both the spiritual
worlds.”<sup>**[<sup>6</sup>](#sdfootnote6sym)**</sup>

These are high-sounding words which have misled the unthinking all down
the centuries since they were penned. The fallacy underlying these
propositions is that the reasonableness or unreasonableness of the
divine disclosures is to be judged by the finite mind. Much of the plain
and didactic teaching of the Scriptures is repugnant to man, just as
these were repugnant to Origen’s philosophy. Under this dangerous
authority of reason changes in the plain intent of the Scriptures came
in like a flood, originated and fostered by Origen and his followers. It
is one thing to properly interpret a Scripture allegory. It is quite
another thing to allegorize a plain “Thus saith the Lord,” violating
thereby all the laws governing the transmission of thought.

During the next century after the introduction of this system,
Augustine, adopting the allegorizing method, added to the “practice of
interpretation” (no real science of hermeneutics yet existed) three
elements, namely:

(1) ”*The qualifications necessary to the interpreter*;

(2) *the analogy of faith*; and

(3) *the authority of tradition*.”

These three propositions at first made slow progress. The first and
second come up for fuller discussion in the later divisions of the
study. The latter became one of the dominating principles in the church
of the following period.

**THIRD PERIOD**. The Middle Ages. The Church developed the errors
introduced in the former period. The authority of an extra-Biblical
tradition became strongly entrenched. Under this authority all the
abuses in the Church of the times, the adoption of dogmas of pagan
origin, and other perversions of Christianity were justified. There
could be no progress toward a true hermeneutical science in this age.

**FOURTH PERIOD**. The Reformation. This movement “was destined to
exercise and did exercise, an immense influence on Hermeneutics.” In
fact, it is in this period that a true science of hermeneutical
principles had its beginning. Three new principles were generally
accepted, namely:

**(1)*****Theopneusty***. Inspiration of the Scripture “taken in its
absolute sense.” But Bannerman wrote: “Within the pale of the Protestant
Church there soon emerged a difference of opinion, which has subsisted
with growing divergence ever since. The one principle of the singular
and supreme authority of Scripture found its natural expression in the
views of Calvin and his followers in the Reformed Churches, with respect
to inspiration.”<sup>**[<sup>7</sup>](#sdfootnote7sym)**</sup> The
return to the authority of the Scriptures opened the way for the
recognition that the Bible is a self-interpreting book. It opened the
way for the development of the principles which resulted from the
examination of the Scriptures themselves.

(**2)*****The Analogy of Faith***. “This principle, according as it is
explained and applied, is a fruitful source of error, or of truth. It is
very much like reposing on a treacherous wheel, which is ready to run
either way. Nevertheless it merits all confidence, so long as we take
for the rule of faith the uniform teaching of Scripture. But if, on the
contrary, we take the faith of the Church or official doctrinal symbols
for the rule of faith, and apply it in theory, or in fact, to the
interpretation of the Scriptures, we are guilty of the fallacies of
*petitio principii* and of reasoning in a circle. This would be the
death of all examination, and of all Hermeneutics, and of all exegesis.
Undisguised Popery could not be
worse.”<sup>**[<sup>8</sup>](#sdfootnote8sym)**</sup>

Although Augustine first mentions this principle there could be no
progress in its use until the church had thrown off the shackles of
traditionalism. “With the Reformation of the sixteenth Century the mind
of Germany and of other European states broke away from the ignorance
and superstition of the Middle Ages, the Holy Scriptures were appealed
to as the written revelation of God, containing all things necessary to
salvation, and the doctrine of the justification by faith was magnified
against priestly absolution and the saving meritoriousness of
works.”<sup>**[<sup>9</sup>](#sdfootnote9sym)**</sup>

This freedom to study the Scriptures inductively, resulting in the
formularies which became crystallized as controversy arose, has not
survived to any such extent as the truth demands.

Amongst a great many churchmen there has been the tendency to keep
within the bounds of the Reformation creeds as constituting the analogy
of faith by which the Scriptures are to be interpreted, instead of being
conformed to the whole tenor of Scripture teaching. In view of this it
needs to be said that no short creedal statement does or can exhaust the
wealth of Scripture truth, on the one hand, nor does any group of
exegetes hold a mortgage on what measure of truth is embedded in the
creeds, on the other hand.

The Spirit-led believer has the God-bestowed freedom, within the
confines of revealed truth, to enter every room of the revelatory
structure and make himself at home in all the counsel of God. To deny
him this on the grounds of a so-called Protestant traditionalism is no
better in principle than the withholding of the right under the Roman
Church traditionalism. Such is the perversity of human nature, however,
that this denial of the right of such freedom is frequently voiced by
those who are jealous for the limitations of the creeds.

In connection with the vital challenge of Scripture, a discerning writer
has said: “For orthodoxy, let us observe, is not my ‘doxy’ or the other
fellow’s ‘doxy.’ It is *what it is, viz.: sound or right teaching
according to the Scriptures* and inspiration, the guarantee of
orthodoxy, like a flaming sword, turns every way on an approach to
Scripture. Those who attack the Bible, if they had vision enough to
perceive it, are *always bound* to fail in carrying the assault. This
(from a philosophical standpoint) explains why the modernist so often
takes refuge in affixing stupid and unmeaning labels on those who
challenge him to show that the claims of Scriptures are not worthy of
the highest credence.”<sup>**[<sup>10</sup>](#sdfootnote10sym)**</sup>

This also precisely explains why the creedal limitationist attaches
stupid labels on those who do not follow the traditionalism which had
its beginning in the Patristic age and insist on going back to take a
stand with the Apostles. The frequently repeated label is, one is devoid
of “scholarship” if one does not *accept* this traditionalism. One may
*know* all the quirks and turns of it, but to take one’s stand instead
with the source of Truth, is unscholarly.

**(3)*****The Comparison of Scripture with Scripture*****.** “The
Reformation, while rendering Hermeneutics more intellectual, more
logical, and more Biblical, enabled interpreters to derive more benefit,
than their predecessors had done, from the Bible itself, by the method
of comparing its different portions. Suffice it to remark that this new
tendency, to compare Scripture with Scripture, did more than anything
else to prepare a conscientious and logical exegesis, and began the work
of placing Hermeneutics upon its true
foundation.”<sup>**[<sup>11</sup>](#sdfootnote11sym)**</sup> This
comparative study of the Scriptures is included as a fundamental
principle of Biblical interpretation by all standard works on
Hermeneutics. An elaboration of it will be made in a later section,
entitled, “Four Fundamental Rules of Interpretation.”

Part 3
======

II Historical Sketch (continued)
--------------------------------

Following the Reformation several marked movements took place, none of
which presented entirely new principles of interpretation. Rather, they
were revivals of ideas long held by various leaders, some of the views
dating back to the first century and others originating in the third
century or thereafter. These movements included the prominence in the
seventeenth century of the demands of the Socinians that Revelation be
subject to reason, and the demands, at the other extreme, of the Quakers
who would subject “the written Word to the *Inner Word*, that is, to
individual revelation.”

In the early part of the eighteenth century three schools of different
principles emerged:

**(a)*****The Logical School***, founded by two Genevese, Le Clerc and
Turritini, who succeeded the Arminians. “This school broke the despotism
of the allegorizing school, but through its cold logic lost the
spiritual truths of the Bible.”

**(b)*****The Pietistic School***, founded by Spencer, which was a
reaction from the former. Although accused of mysticism, Spencer opposed
the Quakers thus: “Our feelings are not the norm of truth, but divine
truth is the norm of our feelings. This rule of truth exists in the
Divine Word *apart from ourselves*.” (

**c)*****The Naturalistic School*** of the German Naturalists, a
destructive reaction.

During the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries four systems, the
underlying principles of which are still appealed to, should be noted
more particularly, namely:

**(1)*****The Postmillennial System***, introduced by Daniel Whitby, an
English Arminian theologian who died in 1726. Although he published his
system admittedly as a “new hypothesis,” he employed principles which
the savants of the Alexandrian school followed as early as the third
century. It became the accepted interpretation in the majority of the
theological schools of Christendom, and held the first place for many
years. More recently it has been replaced by the *Amillennial System*
which differs in certain respects and in other features is similar in
interpretation. A comparison of these systems will not be presented in
this brief historical sketch.

**(2)*****The Grammatical School*** founded by Ernesti. He based sound
interpretation on the philological study of the text. Although
productive of valuable results it failed in general exposition of
Scripture. It is true that sound interpretation must begin with the
grammatical sense of the text, and this does indeed hold first place in
the rules for interpretation, nevertheless it is possible to trot all
day in a grammatical half-bushel and fail to get the great sweep of the
meaning of the broad context. Hence there are other rules, presented in
a later section, which safeguard against an overemphasis of grammatical
considerations.

**(3)*****The Historical School***, founded by Semler, “occupied itself
principally, and too much, with exposition,” interpreted by “the facts,
usages, and prejudices of the times.” “Semler was the real father of
German rationalism. This school bore its fruits. It filled Germany with
a crowd of theologians, without piety, without faith, and without life,
with now and then original thinkers and keen critics, distinguished only
by the rashness and fickleness of their theories, and by the superficial
and vain levity of the hypotheses which they advanced with jealous
rivalry. To sum up in a few words, the grammatical school was judicious,
methodical, enlightened; but it was insufficient; to complete it other
methods and other principles were necessary. The historical school would
have been useful if it had been inspired by a spirit of sound criticism
and of pious prudence, and, in the exercise of this spirit, been
contented with the modest character of an auxiliary, instead of aspiring
to supremacy.”<sup>**[<sup>12</sup>](#sdfootnote12sym)**</sup>

**(4)*****The Premillennial System***. Although there are writers who,
either being unfamiliar with the facts of Church history or willing to
ignore these facts, claim extreme modernity for the Premillennial faith,
the truth is that the chiliasm of the Apostles and the First Century
Church is identical in all its major features to the Premillennial
system held by orthodox Christians today. Throughout the history of the
Christian Church God has had His witnesses to this truth. During periods
of great spiritual declension this body of Scripture truth has been kept
alive by a few only. With every revival of the spiritual emphasis in
life and Bible study by Christian people, this faith has come to the
fore, thus evidencing the blessing of God upon the testimony whenever it
has recurred.

The bulk of the literature on Hermeneutics has been produced during the
last century. In many of the works the laws governing interpretation
have been sound, but the application of the laws have not always
illustrated the principles inherent in the laws themselves. This
inconsistency is often noticeable in connection with points on which the
author is prejudiced in favor of a preconceived or adopted
interpretation. That this common fault is not in harmony with sound
Hermeneutics will be amply demonstrated in future sections of our study.
We shall next consider some of the fundamental axioms on which sound
Hermeneutics rest.

Part 4
======

III Some Axioms of General Hermeneutics
---------------------------------------

An axiom is a self-evident truth. Although this is the primary
definition of the lexicographers, it cannot be said that all fundamental
principles of the various sciences are at once self-evident, and
therefore at first sight axiomatic in character. Some essential
principles become clearly axiomatic to the student only after an
understanding of the background and general field in which the principle
is operative has been gained. This is generally true of various
sciences, therefore we may expect to find it true also in the science of
Biblical interpretation; for here, moreover, an element intrudes itself
which is not found in any other science. The natural man cannot see the
spiritual things of the divine revelation. The principles which all
regenerate men readily recognize as the axioms of the faith, unbelievers
are unable to understand or accept.

The axioms related to language as a medium for the expression of
thought, secular and sacred, are so simple it seems to the student a
waste of time to consider them; and yet, simple and self-evident as they
are, they are so frequently violated or disregarded by scholars that
heed must be given to them as the foundations of hermeneutics are laid.

Practically all writers on hermeneutics now and then refer to the simple
and fundamental principles governing the use of language without
formally announcing them as axioms. Dr. Clinton Lockhart, however, in
his *Principles of Interpretation* devotes a chapter to axioms, listing
fifteen. I have selected seven of these as representative and on which
some comments and quotations may be made. The order followed by the
author is changed to suit this condensed treatment.

**Axiom 1.*****The true object of speech is the impartation of
thought*****.**

This lays “the foundation of all hermeneutics.” The objective true is
important; for in the face of the fact that much speech is innocent of
thought it still remains true that the impartation of thought is the
true object of speech. Many believe that the Book of Revelation cannot
be understood, yet the Apostle used understandable language and familiar
Biblical symbols to convey definite thoughts which may be understood in
their true meaning under right methods of study. The habit of many
interpreters of setting aside what the author really says, replacing it
with what they want him to say and what he does not say, must be ruled
out as a legitimate procedure in Hermeneutics.

**Axiom 2.*****Language is a reliable medium of communication*****.**

This axiom calls for the presupposition that the language employed be
grammatically correct, clear in statement, accurately expressing the
thought to be communicated to others. If these precautions are complied
with, the writer has a right to expect that his thought committed to
writing will be understood as he intends to have it understood. The
unethical practice by some interpreters of reading into the author’s
words foreign meanings, and thus perverting the sense as the writer
communicated it, is all too common with Biblical interpreters. I
remember an article by a theologian in which he gave it as his opinion
that the word *new* should be interpolated before the word *Jerusalem*
throughout the Old Testament text because of his aversion to the
prophecies concerning the literal City of Jerusalem, located in the
earthly Holy Land, at the eastern end of the Mediterranean Sea which
occupies a definite area of the surface of this literal earth on which
the writers were sojourning. The honest interpreter will respect the
writer’s confidence in the language he uses to express his thought.
Without such confidence legal papers would not stand in court, and no
will and testament would have validity. Further, it would not be
possible for God to give through the sacred writers an accurate
revelation of His mind and heart concerning His eternal purposes and
plan for His creatures.

**Axiom 3.*****Usage determines the meaning of words*****.**

Students of the history of the growth of any language have no difficulty
in accepting this axiom. Through usage words may in time change
radically in meaning or become obsolete. On the subject of word usage in
the New Testament Cellérier
says,<sup>**[<sup>13</sup>](#sdfootnote13sym)**</sup> “The more perfect
revelation of God’s will, as given in the New Testament, necessitated a
more perfect usage of language. The thought and affections of men were
to be drawn into new channels, hence it was necessary for language to
follow wherever thought and affection led. Thus resulted the creating of
new words, or, more frequently, the giving of new significations to the
words then in usage. This powerful influence made itself felt throughout
the New Testament and modified, still more, the language of the Greek
Fathers.” He lists, for example, fifty-two Greek words which were
invested with special meaning through usage. It is quite necessary that
the interpreter take into account meanings which grow out of special as
well as common usage.

**Axiom 4.*****The function of a word depends on its association with
other words*****.**

Perhaps no axiom related to language is more important for the
interpreter than this one. Lockhart cites the word *top*, indicating
eight distinct meanings, each governed by the use of other words in
association with it. No other fundamental principle related to
hermeneutics is more often violated than this one by ignoring the
qualifying words chosen by the Holy Spirit to distinguish the use of a
word in varying contexts. The interpreter who argues that the word
“gospel” means “good news” and therefore wherever the word occurs it
means one and the same thing regardless of the qualifying words
(kingdom, grace, everlasting, etc.) would be discredited as a literary
interpreter of Shakespeare should he employ the same method. His
standing as a literary critic would be seriously lowered. Are the
secular classics worthy to be treated more seriously than the inspired
Word of God? To fail under this axiom to make distinctions where the
qualifying words in the context demand such distinctions is comparable
to claiming that the word “top” always means the same thing, whether the
context refers to the *top* of the house or a toy spinning on the
sidewalk.

**Axiom 5.*****The true object of interpretation is to apprehend the
exact thought of the author*****.**

After considering the foregoing axioms related to language itself it is
important to consider the object of the interpretation of thoughts
expressed by language. If language is a reliable medium of thought and
men have conscientiously committed their thoughts to language, it should
be the first care of the interpreter to learn the exact thought of the
writings under examination. The moment the interpreter injects his own
thoughts in the place of those expressed by an author, he ceases to be
an interpreter and becomes a collaborator. If this intrusion is forced
upon a secular writer without his consent a serious infringement of the
ethics of writing occurs. When one essays this role with the Spirit
Author of the Word of God something far worse than the violation of mere
ethics is involved. On this axiom Lockhart comments as follows: “The
interpreter is not responsible for the thought, whether it be true or
false, consistent or inconsistent, good or bad doctrine. His only
province is to apprehend the precise thought imparted by the author’s
words, and leave the author responsible for the character of his
thought.”

**Axiom 6.*****Truth must accord with truth; and statements of truth
apparently discrepant can be harmonized if the facts are known*****.**

Seeming discrepancies in all classes of true evidence may be harmonized
if the pertinent facts are made known. It is proven by experience in
courts of law, general investigations, and in solving apparent
discrepancies in the Bible.

**Axiom 7.*****An assertion of truth necessarily excludes that to which
it is essentially opposed and no more*****.**

On this Lockhart says: “A proposition purporting to set forth a truth
must not be supposed to exclude everything as false that it does not
contain; but it must exclude everything that is in opposition to it. For
example, when Jesus says, ‘The truth shall make you free’ (John 8:32),
he does not exclude his own statement, ‘If therefore the Son shall make
you free, you shall be free indeed’ (v. 36). The latter does not oppose
the former. The truth and the Son are not mutually exclusive.”

To those selections from Lockhart’s
chapter<sup>**[<sup>14</sup>](#sdfootnote14sym)**</sup> on the axioms of
Hermeneutics the following from Cellèrier is also added:

**Axiom 8.*****One cannot interpret without understanding that which he
interprets*****.**

This is a self-evident truth. Now, to understand the thought of another
is so to conceive it in one’s own mind as to be able to reproduce it to
others *without change or modification*” (italics mine).

The attentive reader cannot escape certain conclusions which must be
adopted if the truth of these axioms is accepted. Not only is the
language of a properly worded and constructed statement a reliable means
of communicating thought, and men may confidently commit their thoughts
to such language, but the interpreter has no right to change that
meaning by any method of interpretation which changes the plain intent
of the writer. The “spiritualizing” method of Bible interpretation not
only seeks to introduce a meaning in the text which the plain intent of
the writer does not warrant, but the system is defended on that very
ground. The strong implication is that the modern interpreter knows the
mind of God more fully than the inspired writers did. This is hardly
defensible, even on the grounds of common sense and logic.

Part 5
======

IV The Relation of Logic to Interpretation<sup>**[<sup>15</sup>](#sdfootnote15sym)**</sup>
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Accepting the prerequisite fundamental facts enumerated in the preceding
sections as a basis upon which general interpretational study must
advance, the next step should be the choice of the right method of
logical procedure, and to avoid ultimate confusion this must be
consistently adhered to. Some writers place before all else the
necessity of attention to grammatical construction, idiomatic expression
and other textual consideration. Although these very important matters
should have close attention in their proper order, it remains a fact
that one may trot all day in a grammatical half-bushel and not come
within clear sight of the great themes of the Bible and their logical
development.

The Bible is not a handbook of Logic. It is not a compendium of Natural
Science. Its own themes, however, are developed in accordance with the
principles of logic and in harmony with classification of proved facts.
The logic of the sacred writers has been made a subject of special
attack by radical critics, one such writer voicing the sentiment of the
many in the thought that Paul was too logical, that his logic is so
inexorable that modern thinkers are forced to reject his conclusions. It
is a sad commentary on certain phases of so-called orthodox theologies
that this sentiment, now boldly voiced by spiritual outlanders, exhibits
the evidence of its influence in various theological formulas.

Sadder still is the fact that many hold these dicta to be normative as a
standard by which the Word of God itself should be interpreted. In
whatsoever measure this idea is allowed to influence the student’s
thinking it weakens to that degree faith in the fundamental fact of the
Spirit’s authorship of the Scriptures. To attack the logic of the sacred
writers is to attack the logic of God. This is the necessary conclusion
if the Biblical doctrines of revelation and inspiration are accepted.

In revealing God’s thought the Holy Spirit not only employs the bald and
dogmatic statement of fact which must be accepted without argumentative
proof (Example, “In the beginning God created the heavens and the
earth”); but also He makes use of the reasoning process, amplifying the
bald statement of truth by comprehensible proof and illustration
(Example, in 1 John 4:8 the dogmatic statement, “God is love,” is not
revealed as a bolt of sheer truth flashed from heaven to dazzle the
human mind, but the gracious proofs are given in the context, as also in
such a passage as John 3:16, cf. 1 John 3:16, wherein the argument that
the giving of the Father’s only begotten Son proves His *so* great love
and through the terminology of family relationship brings it within the
comprehensibility of the simplest mind).

Not only is it revealed that God deigns to reason with man in specific
instances (Example, “Come now, and let us reason together, saith the
Lord,” Isa 1:18), but much of the Scripture is cast in the form of
argumentative reasoning. Dr. A. B. Winchester emphasizes in a lecture
the fact that the language of Paul “is not the language of the poet, the
historian or the romancer, but the language of the logician.”

Among the accepted ideas which are included in definitions of applied
logic the following concise formula meets the requirements of this
discussion, namely, *Logic is the science of the principles which govern
correct thinking and sound reasoning*. If the doctrine of the
omniscience of God is accepted, if the revelation given to Isaiah is
believed, “For as the heavens are higher than the earth, so are my ways
higher than your ways, and my thoughts than your thoughts,” if God’s
thoughts are correct and His reasoning perfect, His revelation expressed
in human language must be logical. Although this may seem to be truistic
and its statement superfluous, it is vitally related to the subject of
Biblical interpretation.

If it be granted that the Spirit Author expressed divine thought in
accordance with the laws governing human language, correct thinking and
sound reasoning-and no other conclusion is possible to one who accepts
the Bible as revelation inspired by the omniscient Spirit-it stands to
reason that any interpretation which does not follow these same laws
will be subversive and misleading.

An exhaustive treatment of logic is neither possible in this work nor is
it necessary, the whole discussion being confined to certain fundamental
principles of interpretation. The discussion of this section, therefore,
will be confined to an outline of the fundamental principles, postulates
and forms of logical process which are applicable to the study of the
Scriptures.<sup>**[<sup>16</sup>](#sdfootnote16sym)**</sup>

Logicians reduce the laws of logic to four fundamental principles:

**(1) “The Law of Identity, or Affirmation**. *Everything is identical
with itself, or is what it is, and we may affirm this of it*.” This is
“at the basis of all consistent affirmative thinking.” The Scriptures
affirm that God is. Related to faith the word is, “for he that cometh to
God must believe that he is” (Heb 11:6). They consistently identify Him
with himself as apart from, above and over all creation. The Bible
affirms that sin is, and that it is what it is-sin. To deny this fact
results in illogical and absurd conclusions (Example, the vagaries of
Christian Science.)

**(2) “The Law of Contradiction, or Negation**, or as Hamilton terms it,
Non-contradiction, may be stated as follows: *Everything is not what it
is not, and we may affirm this of it*.” The Scriptures never confuse
opposites. Law and grace are antipodal. A thing can not be what it is
not, and Paul applies this Law in the words, “And if by grace, then is
it no more of works: otherwise grace is no more grace. But if it be of
works, then is it no more grace: otherwise work is no more work” (Rom
11:6). ”*The Law of Contradiction lies at the basis of all distinction
in thought*.”

**(3) “The Law of Excluded Middle, or Exclusion**, may be stated as
follows: Of two contradictories one must be true and the other false. If
one is affirmed, the other is thereby denied.” Predictive prophecy is a
component of the divine revelation, or it is not. If by the Law of
Identity it is true that the Scriptures contain predictive prophecy,
then, by the Law of Exclusion, the proposition that they do not contain
it is false.

**(4) “The Law of Reason and Consequent, or Sufficient Reason**.-The Law
is stated as follows: All continuous thought must be rationally
connected. The Law has been formulated: Infer nothing without a ground
or reason. The starting-point in continuous thinking is the affirmation
of some knowledge by which the mind is necessitated to affirm or posit
something else.” Thus the ”*logical reason*” is followed by the
”*logical consequent*,” and the relation between them is the ”*logical
connection*” or ”*consequence*.” This involves the relations of ”*cause
to effect*,” ”*effect to cause*;” ”*whole to part*,” ”*part to whole*,”
etc. Hamilton points out that this axiom takes both a positive and
negative form. When a reason exists there must be a consequent, and
*vice versa*; where no reason exists there can be no consequent, and
*vice versa*. This law is in evidence throughout the Scriptures. The
contexts governed by Paul’s “wherefores” and “therefores” may be cited
especially.

Two fundamental postulates of logic should be noted:

**The First Postulate.-*****There is such a thing as truth which can be
ascertained, and on which all minds, acting in accordance with the laws
of thought, must agree*****.**

This is true of truth which comes within the purview of the natural
mind. All minds following the laws of correct mentation must arrive at
the result, 4, when 2 and 2 are added. The Scriptures, on the other
hand, disclose divine truth which is not perceivable by natural men. The
Lord said to Pilate, “Every one that is of the truth heareth my voice.
Pilate saith unto him, What is truth?” All natural men share this
perplexity of the Roman procurator, for none can perceive God’s revealed
truth until regenerated and indwelt by the Holy Spirit (John 3:5, 6; 1
Cor 2:14).

At this point, however, the dictum of Dr. Wright should be called to
mind: “The written word or God, like the Word which became flesh, must
be human in its manward aspect; for the written word is divine thought
manifest in human language as Christ was God manifest in human flesh. As
the compound personality of Christ was conditioned by the flesh, so the
compound character of a written revelation is conditioned by the nature
of language.” Although it is true that only the children of God are
divinely enabled to perceive His truth, it remains a fact that the
ascertainment of a comprehensive and correlated knowledge of revelation
is dependent upon adherence to the laws governing logical thought.
Intelligent “searching of the Scriptures” predicates a logical procedure
on the part of the student because the Scriptures themselves are
expressed in conformity with the laws governing logical thought.

Many sincere Christians are befogged in their understanding of great
portions of God’s truth because they have accepted illogical and
misleading interpretations instead of the logical conclusions of the
Bible’s own testimony.

**The Second Postulate**.-This, as stated by Hamilton, is, ‘**to be
allowed to state explicitly in language all that is implicitly contained
in thought.**’

Logic deals ultimately with thought, and it has to do with language only
as expressing thought. It is, therefore, proper to ask, in connection
with any term, proposition, or argument, ‘What is the thought in this?’
or, in other words, ‘What is the full and exact meaning of this?’ and to
state in full this meaning.” The province of Bible interpretation is to
get at the meaning of the divine thought as expressed in the human
language chosen by the Holy Spirit.

This brings us to a consideration of the forms of logical process a
general understanding of the principles of which is necessary to
intelligent judgment of current theological interpretations of
Scripture. There are two fundamental forms of logical procedure, namely,
Induction and Deduction. There is another form which is reducible to a
combination of these two, namely Inference by Analogy.

1. Induction

“Logical Induction (we are not here concerned with Mathematical
Induction) is the process of reasoning from all the parts to the whole.”
“The product of Inductive Reasoning is a Generalization.” Two rules must
be observed:

(1) “Observe, analyze, and classify the facts to be generalized and
explained, in order to ascertain their reality and their various
elements and relations.”

(2) “Correctly interpret the facts” in order that a true basis for the
generalization may be found.

A Perfect Induction takes place “when, by a perfect enumeration of all
individuals or particulars, the whole sphere of the universal is
exhausted,” and an Imperfect Induction “includes the cases in which the
universal is reached by inference, without the complete enumeration of
objects.”

There are two fallacies to guard against in the inductive form:

(1) The first “may result from *careless and incomplete observation of
facts*, and may then be called the Fallacy of Insufficient Observation.”

2) “The false generalization may also result from the hasty assumption
of something as the cause which is not the cause.”

These two fallacies bulk large in the writings of evolutionists. On the
other hand, scientists of first rank who have taken all of the
particulars into account, and who have faithfully avoided assumption
that anything is a fact until it is proven to be a fact, are united in
their testimony that the theories of evolution have not yet been proved
to be facts. This testimony, however, does not reach the general public
effectively because the popular channels of information are largely
under the control of that class of disseminators of materialistic
teachings who lecture dogmatically on these themes to callow youth in
the classroom or scribble their indiscriminate and unfounded assumptions
to that larger audience represented by readers of the Sunday Newspaper
Supplement. In like manner these fallacies underlie all heretical
offshoots from Biblical Christianity for the departures of which a
Scripture basis is claimed.

The Bible is a collection of writings certified by the Holy Spirit to be
God’s Word. It is a documentary evidence of the divine thought. Although
here and there short summaries of important doctrines are found,
complete statements of thematic teachings seldom occur in a single
passage. Rather, the general principle of the revelatory method is the
progressive development of the Bible themes, partial statements of them
being scattered through several, or in some instances many, of the
writings.

This being true, the *inductive method* of the thematic study of the
Scriptures is of first importance, for Scripturally defendable thematic
generalizations result only from perfect, or near perfect, induction,
that is to say, “when, by a perfect enumeration of all individuals or
particulars, the whole sphere of the universal is exhausted.” In this
connection, it should be noted that many students arrive at a correct
generalization without a complete induction, faith carrying them over
many neglected particulars which are necessary, nevertheless, to sustain
a logical conclusion. Such students too often rely on the conclusions of
others and are, therefore, even when holding right conclusions, poorly
equipped to support their position with Scripture proofs.

Before passing on to a consideration of the deductive form of logical
process as applied to the study of the Scriptures, an example of the
inductive method will be cited. Many of the accepted generalizations of
Protestant theology were formulated from an inductive study of the
respective themes as revealed in the Bible, and upon these orthodox
Christians generally agree. On the other hand, other generalizations
were formulated from an unwarranted application of the deductive method
which will be examined in the section under Deduction. The inclusion of
these statements which were not formulated through the inductive process
has been the cause of divisions amongst Christians with continued
controversy and disagreement.

***An Example of the Inductive Method: A Study of the Doctrine of the
Resurrections.***

Among other similar problems, every Bible student is confronted with the
question: Is the theological dictum that there will be only one and
all-inclusive resurrection of the bodies of the saved and unsaved of
mankind immediately preceding the ushering in of the new heavens and new
earth Biblically correct, or is the doctrine of two resurrections
separated by a period of time the teaching of the New Testament? It will
be recognized at once by a student whose chief concern is to learn what
the Spirit has revealed on the subject that an unassailable
generalization from the viewpoint of the New Testament revelation can
only be arrived at by a complete enumeration of the particulars of the
theme which exhaust the sphere of its universal.

Applying the first rule of this procedure, all the passages containing
the particulars and facts to be generalized or explained must be
collated, observed, analyzed and classified. Only after this has been
done faithfully is it possible to proceed to the second rule, namely,
correctly interpret the facts thus analyzed and classified in order that
a true generalization may be formulated.

The following three general rules under observation should be noted:

(1) Observe all the essential facts, parts, or properties in any case.

(2) Admit no fact, part, or property that does not belong to the case in
hand.

(3) Avoid all delusive mixtures of inference with the facts of
observation.

The particulars of the example are as follows:

***First Particular***

John 5:24-29

24 Verily, verily, I say unto you, He that heareth my word, and
believeth on him that sent me, hath everlasting life, and shall not come
into condemnation; but is passed from death unto life.

25 Verily, verily, I say unto you, The [an] hour is coming, and now is,
when the dead shall hear the voice of the Son of God: and they that hear
[shall have heard] shall live.

26 For as the Father hath life in himself; so hath he given to the Son
to have life in himself;

27 And hath given him authority to execute judgment also, because he is
the Son of man.

28 Marvel not at this, for the [an] hour is coming in the which all that
are in the graves shall hear his voice.

29 And shall come forth; they that have done [ποιήσαντες, followed, were
devoted to, practiced] good, unto the resurrection of life; and they
that have done [πράξαντες, did] evil, unto the resurrection of
damnation”

The central thought in this passage is the authority given to the Son by
the Father in the issues of life and death, but these issues are linked
with two bodily resurrections-one unto life eternal and the other unto
condemning judgment. The Lord first states the conditions which must be
met by men to secure eternal life (v. 24).

He then predicts the bestowal of life to all that hear His voice in “an
hour” which not only existed as He spoke but which as the then “coming”
hour of grace is still in extension (v. 25), for the issues of life are
given to the Son of the Father, and authority to execute judgment to the
incarnate Word-the Son of man (vs. 26, 27).

This is followed by the prediction of another “hour” in which those that
have previously heard His voice and have received life shall then be
clothed with their immortal bodies, while those that have been deaf to
His voice, and therefore have not passed “from death unto life” but in
death have passed from death unto death, are raised unto judgment.

The one point to determine is, does this first New Testament passage in
which two futures resurrections are mentioned allow without
contradiction for the further development of the doctrine of two
resurrections separated by a period of time? The point hangs on the
Lord’s use of the word “hour.”

There can be no question that the words, “an hour is coming, and now
is,” indicate a long period of time. It can be no other than that
extended period of time during which men have the opportunity to hear
His Word and receive that Life the possession of which alone makes
possible that practice of good which is pleasing to God and the final
concomitant of which is the immortal body. It is, therefore, in perfect
harmony with the passage to consider the resurrection “hour” also as an
extended period of time.

An observable rule of revelation is that the passage which contains the
beginnings of a doctrine is so stated that it does not contradict the
later and fuller revelations on the subject (Example, the words, “God”
and “Heaven,” in the first verse of the Bible are both in the plural
number, thus allowing for the later revelations that all three members
of the Godhead took part in creation and that three heavens are
distinguished in the Scriptures).

It is entirely admissible to suppose, until either confirmed or
disproved by other Scriptures, that one resurrection occurs at the
beginning and is continued during the early part of an extended period
of time and that the other takes place at the end of the same period of
time. If the “hour” during which eternal life is bestowed has already
lasted nearly two millenniums, it is entirely permissible to suppose
that the resurrection “hour” may include one millennium between the
close of the first resurrection and the occurrence of the second
resurrection. At this early point of the observation, however, this
permissible supposition must be reserved as an hypothesis to be verified
later.

The first particular to be noted, then, is that this New Testament
passage in which mention of two resurrections occurs allows, without
contradiction of anything in the passage, for their separation in point
of time, based upon the extensiveness of the word “hour” as used by the
Lord in connection with the sharp contrast between the subjects of the
resurrections and their following states.

***Second Particular***

I Thess. 4:13-17

13 But when thou makest a feast, call the poor, the maimed, the lame,
the blind:

14 And thou shalt be blessed; for they cannot recompense thee: for thou
shalt be recompensed at the resurrection of the just” (Luke 14:13, 14).

22 For as in Adam all die, even in Christ shall all be made alive.

23 But every man in his own order. Christ the first fruits; afterward
they that are Christ’s at his coming” (1 Cor 15:22, 23).

13 But I would not have you to be ignorant, brethren, concerning them
which are asleep, that ye sorrow not, even as others which have no hope.

14 For if we believe that Jesus died and rose again, even so them which
sleep in Jesus will God bring with him.

15 For this we say unto you by the word of the Lord, that we which are
alive and remain unto the coming of the Lord shall not prevent [precede]
them which are asleep.

16 For the Lord himself shall descend from heaven with a shout, with the
voice of the archangel and with the trumpet of God: and the dead in
Christ shall rise first:

17 Then we which are alive and remain shall be caught up together with
them in the clouds, to meet the Lord in the air; and so shall we ever he
with the Lord”

Phil. 3:10,11

10 That I may know him, and the power of his resurrection, and the
fellowship of his sufferings, being made conformable unto his death:

11 If by any means I might attain unto the resurrection of [ἐξανάστασιν,
resurrection out of] the dead”

Each of these four passages contains a restrictive phrase which
precludes the idea that a simultaneous resurrection of the bodies of the
believing and unbelieving dead shall take place. Saints are to be
“recompensed at the resurrection of the just”; “they that are Christ’s”
are to be given their resurrection bodies “at his coming”; when the Lord
descends with a shout “the dead in Christ” shall be raised and shall
precede the translation of the then living believers; while Paul writes
not of attaining unto *mere* resurrection but the
“out-from-among-the-dead” resurrection. In these first three passages
the restrictive element is clearly evident in the English translation
and needs no further comment.

That Paul has in mind, in the Philippians passage, that resurrection
which he limits in the two preceding quotations by the phrases “they
that are Christ’s” and “the dead in Christ,” is evident for two reasons:

(1) Paul was well aware that all believers and unbelievers that pass
through natural death shall be joined to their resurrection bodies. In
his defense before Felix he speaks of his own belief in common with that
of the accusing Jews, in the words: “And have hope toward God, which
they themselves allow, that there shall be a resurrection of the dead,
both of the just and unjust.” For Paul to write of merely attaining unto
bodily resurrection which all men *must* experience would be absurdly
illogical, a serious charge to bring against this divinely inspired
logician.

(2) In this single instance in the Scriptures of the use of the compound
of ἐξ and ἀνάστασις Paul clearly has in mind that summons of the shout
of the Lord which shall call out from among the dead the bodies of all
those only who shall have passed through natural death in Him.

The second particular to notice is that the testimony of the New
Testament is that the resurrection of the bodies of believers is to take
place at the coming of the Lord for His own. No Scripture even hints
that the bodies of unbelievers are to be raised either in this “the day
of Christ,” when He comes in the air with His saints to give them their
immortal bodies, or at His succeeding glorious advent with the clothed
saints to reign and judge during the “day of Jehovah.”

***Third Particular***

1 Cor. 15:20-25

20 But now is Christ risen from the dead, and become the first fruits of
them that slept.

21 For since by man came death, by man came also the resurrection of the
dead.

22 For as in Adam all die, even so in Christ shall all be made alive.

23 But every man in his own order; Christ the first fruits; afterward
they that are Christ’s at his coming.

24 Then cometh the end, when he shall have delivered up the kingdom to
God, even the Father: when he shall have put down all rule and all
authority and power.

25 For he must reign, till he hath put all enemies under his feet” 1 Cor
15:20–25).

In this passage the complete order of the resurrections is given but
without a specific reference to the resurrection of unbelievers, there
being only the provision for it in the order at “the end,” and implied
in the words, “every man in his own order.”

First, Christ in His resurrection became the “first fruits of them that
slept”-those sleeping “in Jesus” (the death of unbelievers never being
spoken of as sleep). “Afterward [ἔπειτα] they that are Christ’s at his
coming. Then [εἶτα] the end” when He shall have accomplished the objects
of His earth rule. These two Greek words are synonymous, the lexicons
giving the same meaning to each which may be according to the context,
“then, afterward, or next in order,” etc. In this context whose central
disclosure is an order of events the latter definition expresses what
evidently seems to be the meaning.

Between the resurrection of Christ and the predicted resurrection of
believers’ bodies nearly two millenniums have already elapsed, and yet
in the divine program of resurrections the resurrection of believers’
bodies is the *next* in order. This is followed with “Next in order the
end” [“cometh” being supplied by the translators].

The common interpretation that the fulfillment of “the end” immediately
follows the preceding resurrection which is supposed to synchronize with
a universal resurrection, is unwarranted for two reasons: The believers’
resurrection being next in order as to the sequence of resurrections but
only after an elapse of an extended period of time, the same
interpretation concerning the time element in the phrase “next in order
the end” is in harmony with the preceding use of the word as translated
“afterward.”

Moreover, the context specifically places “the end” after the Lord has
accomplished the objects of His reign and “shall have delivered up the
kingdom to God, even the Father,” this reign being here set forth
clearly as occurring between the first “next in order,” namely, the
resurrection of those that are “Christ’s at his coming” and the second
“next in order,” namely, “the end.”

The third particular to note is as follows: In view of the statements of
this passage that (1) every man is to experience resurrection but in his
own order or rank, (2) that an extended period of time occurs between
Christ’s resurrection and the resurrection of believers only at His
coming for His own, (3) and that the context clearly indicates an
extended period of time between that restricted resurrection and the end
resurrection, it is clear that the “every man” whose rank will exclude
him from participation in the resurrection of believers will be raised
in the “next in order” time,-the end of Christ’s dealings with man in
the old earth,-and which will be the final or end resurrection.

***Fourth Particular***

Rev 20:4–6, 11, 12, A.V., 14, 15 R.V

4 And I saw thrones, and they sat upon them, and judgment was given unto
them: and I saw the souls of them that were beheaded for the witness of
Jesus, and for the word of God, and which had not worshiped the beast,
neither his image, neither had received his mark upon their foreheads,
or in their hands; and they lived and reigned with Christ a thousand
years.

5 But the rest of the dead lived not again until the thousand years were
finished. This is the first resurrection.

6 Blessed and holy is he that hath part in the first resurrection: on
such the second death hath no power, but they shall be priests of God
and of Christ, and shall reign with him a thousand years.

11 I saw a great white throne, and him that sat on it, from whose face
the earth and the heaven fled away; and there was no place for them.

12 And I saw the dead, small and great, stand before God; and the books
were opened: and another book was opened, which is the book of life: and
the dead were judged out of those things which were written in the
books, according to their works.

14 And death and Hades were cast into the lake of fire. This is the
second death, even the lake of fire.

15 And if any was not found written in the book of life, he was cast
into the lake of fire

The Book of Revelation presents a part of its revelatory matter in
symbolic form, the majority of the symbols employed being those
consistently used throughout the Scriptures by the sacred writers to
denote well defined ideas. Besides these symbols which were familiar to
the early Christians, especially to those of Jewish origin, a few new
ones were introduced for the first time in this the last book of the
Bible, but in each instance of such use of a new symbol an explanation
of its meaning accompanies it in the text (Example, 1:20).

On the other hand, much of the book is couched in language as devoid of
symbolism as any other part of the Bible and as assuredly intended to be
understood by the plain meaning of the words employed. To force a
symbolic meaning on such passages under the excuse that the Revelation
is a book of symbolism is unscientific in method and indefensible under
the laws of Biblical interpretation.

In the above quotations from chapter 20 we have the capstone of the
revelatory structure which discloses the doctrine of the future
resurrections. In respect to this unfolding the only new element
introduced in this final message on the subject is the length of the
time period which shall elapse between the close of the resurrection
during which “the just,” “the dead in Christ,” “they that are Christ’s
at His coming,” and “they which came out of the great tribulation,”
shall receive their glorified bodies. It is not only revealed that the
order or rank, in the words-“every man in his own order,” applies to the
sequence of the resurrections of the saved and the unsaved, but we have
the strong implication of a sequential order in the resurrection of
believers.

Paul uses military language in 1 Thess 4:16, and the implication is that
the saved of all ages come forth in an order of phalanxes. This may be
inferred, also, from the fact that heavenly companies are distinguished
(Heb 12:22, 23), and in addition to these, tribulation saints are
mentioned as a separate company (Rev 7:14).

It is this latter company of believers which comprises the rearmost
phalanx of the first resurrection. Although these tribulation saints are
especially in view in the 20th chapter, the promised blessing in the
words, “Blessed and holy is he that hath part in the first resurrection:
on such the second death hath no power,” is not confined to them but
applies to all severally in whatsoever division they belong. The change
to the plural pronoun in the rest of the sentence, “but they shall be
priests of God and of Christ, and reign with him a [the] thousand
years,” however, implies a more restricted antecedent, for we know from
other Scriptures that the “they” refers not to all who have part in the
first resurrection, but only to the church [ἐκκλησία, called-out ones]
of Christ, that is to say, that divisions of saved ones which the Lord
had in mind when He prophesied, “I will build my church,” and which He
has been doing through the ministry Of the Holy Spirit since the day of
Pentecost.

The only new feature revealed in the 20th chapter concerning the reign
of this portion of those who shall have part in the first resurrection
is, as in the case of the resurrections themselves, the length of the
time period of their reign with Christ on the earth. The promise that
the church saints shall reign with Christ (2 Tim 2:12) with a “rod of
iron” (Rev 2:27) on Christ’s own throne (Rev 3:21) “on the earth” (Rev
5:10) is merely completed in the 20th chapter with the revelation that
the reign on earth is to be coextensive with the time elapsing between
the resurrections of the just and the unjust.

That the second resurrection is not “unto life” but only “unto judgment”
is clear for the following reasons:

There are two classes of divine judgments, namely, the one whose issue
is life or death and which is wholly separate from any complicity with
the others, and the class of judgments which deal with the “works” of
all mankind and which have nothing to do with life and death.

The first is the judgment of the cross. The question of eternal life for
those who receive it by faith in Christ and what He accomplished in His
death and resurrection, on the one hand, and the continuing state of
death for those who fail to accept Christ and His gift of eternal life
and which death is to be sealed eternally with the “second death” at the
“great white throne,” on the other hand, was eternally settled on the
cross.

With His approaching death in view the Lord said: “Now is the judgment
of this world: now shall [*shall*-the execution of it is yet future] the
prince of this world be cast out. And I, if I be lifted up from the
earth, will draw all men unto me. This he said signifying what death he
should die” (John 12:31–33). His death was to be the judgment of the
crucifying world and its head, the usurping prince of evil. When it soon
after became a historical fact He not only judged the World, but He bore
the curse for every man. Thus the issues of life and death were bound up
in that transaction, turning thereafter for each individual during the
dispensation of grace upon the acceptance or rejection of Him and what
He accomplished in His sacrificial, substitution death and justifying
resurrection. This He makes clear further on: “He that rejects me and
receives not my words, hath one that judgeth him: the word that I have
spoken, the same shall judge him in the last day” (vs. 48).

In an earlier revelation with especial reference to the bestowal of
eternal life He said: “He that believeth on him is not judged: he that
believeth not hath been judged already, because he hath not believed on
the name of the only begotten Son of God” (John 3:18 R.V.). Believers
are to be raised “unto life” because they receive eternal life before
natural death. Unbelievers are to be raised “unto judgment” because, not
accepting eternal life before they pass through natural death, they are
judged already as to life and death, and are to be judged at the end
only according to their unbelieving works, which brings us to the second
class-the judgment of
works.<sup>**[<sup>17</sup>](#sdfootnote17sym)**</sup>

Believers are to appear before the “judgment seat” of Christ (Cf. 1 Cor
3:11–15 and 2 Cor 5:10. Note that the “any man” of the former and the
“we” of the latter refer only to believers). This is the reward throne
of Christ at which the subject of life and death is not raised, only
those possessing eternal life appear there. In the last chapter of
Revelation the testimony of the Lord is, “And, behold, I come quickly;
and my reward is with me,” thus synchronizing the time of adjudging
rewards to believers with their resurrection “at his coming.”

On the other hand, nothing is said of rewards at the judgment following
the second resurrection. Following this resurrection “the dead” are to
be “judged out of those things which were written in the books”-the
records of their unbelieving works. Life or death is not the issue in
this judgment as it is not at the reward judgment of believers. As only
the spiritually alive are to appear before the judgment seat of Christ,
so only the spiritually dead are to appear before the great white
throne. They are raised “unto judgment” which terminates in “the second
death” that eternal state which “hath no power” on them that shall have
part in the first resurrection.

It should be noted that “the dead” are not judged out of the book of
Life. In the consummation of God’s dealings with unregenerate humanity
its open pages stand only as testimony to the eternal Truth and to the
long-suffering love of God who “gave his only begotten Son, that
whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting
life.”

The plain meaning of the words in this context warrants no other
conclusion than that the second resurrection is as restrictive
concerning its participating subjects as is the revelation concerning
the subjects of the first resurrection. This final word of the unfolded
doctrine harmonizes perfectly with the preceding revelations on the
subject. The language is specific in its restrictive distinction. The
“blessed” and “holy,” the subjects of the first resurrection, are set
over against “the dead,” the subjects only of the second resurrection,
who are to be judged according to their works. Before yielding to the
temptation of reading into these plain words a meaning not warranted by
their consistent use in the Scriptures the student should ponder the
warning against tampering with the words of the Spirit (Rev 22:18, 19).

The fourth particular to note, therefore, is that a time period
specifically mentioned as “the thousand years” separates the
resurrection of the “blessed” and “holy” on whom “the second death hath
no power” (which can be said only of those who have “passed from death
unto life”), and the resurrection of “the rest” on whom the sentence of
the second death is pronounced.

***Fifth Particular***

1 Pet. 1:3 Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, which
according to his abundant mercy hath begotten us again unto a lively
hope by the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead.

This quotation is representative of all the passages which refer to the
resurrection of the Lord Jesus. These do not bear specifically on this
discussion, excepting as the resurrection of His body “out from among
the dead” is a pattern of the believers’ out-resurrection, hence it is
not necessary to take further notice of this group of passages.

***Sixth Particular***

John 11:24, Martha said unto him, I know that he shall rise again in the
resurrection at the last day.

Acts 23:6, But when Paul perceived that the one part were Sadducees, and
the other Pharisees, he cried out in the council, Men and brethren, I am
a Pharisee, the son of a Pharisee: of the hope and resurrection of the
dead I am called in question.

These two passages are representative of all those in which the two
unspecific phrases, “in the resurrection” and “resurrection of the
dead,” are found, and which phrases taken without due attention to the
contexts in which they occur have seemed to afford a Scriptural warrant
for the belief in one general resurrection. The first of these
unspecific phrases occurs six times (Matt 22:28, 30; Mark 12:23; Luke
20:33, 36; John 11:24).

In Matt 22:28, Mark 12:33 and Luke 20:33 the phrase occurs in the three
records of the Sadducees’ question, “therefore in the resurrection whose
wife shall she be of the seven?” The Sadducees did not believe in any
resurrection, much less the doctrine held by the Pharisees, namely, the
resurrection of the just and unjust. In their attempt to trap the Lord
it was a question only of the *fact* of resurrection. In His reply the
Lord not only touched upon the marriage relationship in heaven, but in
the use of the quotation concerning the God of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob.
He gave them a silencing thrust concerning the fact of resurrection.

It should be noted that only in the Matthew record of His reply (vs. 30)
is the Sadducees’ phrase repeated. In both the Mark and Luke accounts
the restrictive ἐκ νεκρῶν [out from among the dead] is used to denote
the character of the resurrection, instead of the unrestrictive νεκρῶν
[of the dead] in the recorded question of the Sadducees. And this
restrictive sense is doubly emphasized by the Lord immediately following
in Luke’s account. “Neither can they die anymore; for they are equal
unto the angels; and are the children of God, being the children of the
resurrection.”

Commenting on the conversation of Martha with the Lord concerning the
death of Lazarus, Grant says: “The Lord tests her at once with an
assurance of a joy too great for her: ‘Thy brother shall rise again.’
She sinks at once into mere orthodoxy. ‘I know that he shall rise again
in the resurrection at the last
day.’”<sup>**[<sup>18</sup>](#sdfootnote18sym)**</sup> She voiced only
that which had been hitherto revealed to God’s people, but the reply of
the Lord contains the fuller revelation on which the later disclosures
concerning the separate resurrection of believers is based, namely, “I
am the resurrection, and the life: he that believeth in me, though he
were dead, yet shall he live: And whosoever liveth and believeth in me
shall never die” (John 11:25). It is only such about whom later it could
be revealed, on them “the second death hath no power,” because they only
are partakers of His life, and possessing His life shall have part in
the first resurrection.

The inference that there is to be a simultaneous resurrection of the
just unto life and the unjust unto judgment, based on the expression “in
the resurrection,” is groundless. The expression is introduced by the
unbelieving Sadducees and a partially instructed disciple, none of whom
knew the later and fuller disclosures on the subject. Furthermore, even
if the use of this unspecific expression had the sanction of the Lord,
the context would indicate that one of the two resurrections, according
to the class of resurrection subjects occupying His thought, was
referred to (Cf. Matt 22:30 with Mark 12:25 and Luke 20:35. Note the
restrictive phrase, “from the dead”).

The phrase, “the resurrection of the dead,” is employed ten times in the
New Testament, one of which is attributed to the Lord (Matt 22:31), and
four reported by Luke in connection with Paul’s addresses (Acts 17:32,
23:6, 24:15, 21), four recorded by Paul (1 Cor 15:12, 13, 21, 42), and
the last probably recorded by the same Apostle (Heb 6:2). It seems clear
from all these quotations that the *fact* of the resurrection of the
bodies of all the dead, as opposed to the Sadducean doctrine of *no*
resurrection, is in the mind of the Lord and the Apostle Paul when
employing the phrase, “the resurrection of the dead.” In the Lord’s
controversy with the Sadducees; the dissent of the Athenian philosophers
“when they heard of the resurrection of the dead” from Paul’s lips on
Mars’ Hill; and in Paul’s speeches before the Sanhedrin and the
governor, Felix, as well as the Apostle’s argument against the Sadducean
theory in 1 Cor 15, resurrection as a *fact* is in view and not any
specific resurrection.

Likewise, in Heb 6:2, the Apostle includes the doctrine of resurrection
of the dead as one of the fundamental tenets of the Jewish belief as
well as the Christian faith. Both the Lord and the Apostle Paul, on the
other hand, use specific and restrictive phrases when the *participating
subjects* of the resurrections is their theme. An example of this is the
very specific treatment of the believers’ resurrection by Paul in 1 Cor
15 in contrast to the unspecific term in the argument against the theory
of no resurrection in the same chapter.

When these facts are kept in mind the seeming lack of harmony between
the use of the general expression, “the resurrection of the dead,” and
the specific revelations concerning the resurrection of “the dead in
Christ” and the resurrection of “the rest of the dead,” disappears. To
base the doctrine of a general simultaneous resurrection on this
unspecific phrase carries with it the implication that it overrides the
specific revelations of two resurrections, which implication is
logically untenable.

Reduced to a simple statement the particulars found in the forty
references in the New Testament in which the word “resurrection” occurs,
classified and analyzed above as an example of inductive interpretation,
are:

(1) The passages which mention the resurrection of both the just and
unjust allow without contradiction in their own statement for the later
revelations concerning

(2) the clear prediction that only the bodies of believers of the past
and present dispensations are to be raised at the coming of the Lord for
His own in the “day of Christ”;

(3) the program of resurrections, namely, first, Christ the first
fruits, next in order, believers, and finally in order, “the end”;

(4) the specified period of time which shall elapse between the
believers’ or “first” future resurrection, and the unbelievers’ or
“second” future resurrection at “the end.”

(5) The passing over of the passages which treat of the fact, meaning
and present effect of Christ’s resurrection as not affecting the
discussion of two resurrections, only in so far as His resurrection is a
pattern of the believer’s resurrection.

(6) The contexts in which the two unspecific phrases, “in the
resurrection” and “the resurrection of the dead,” clearly indicate that
the *fact* of the resurrection of the body is the question at issue, and
that nothing in these passages is out of harmony with the other
revelations which treat of the separate resurrections of the just and
the unjust.

As a result of this complete enumeration of all the particulars and
their analyses there is but one generalization possible by induction,
namely, The New Testament teaches that there are to be two future
resurrections, (1) that of the bodies of believers only at the coming of
Christ, and (2) that of the bodies of unbelievers only after an
intervening period of time specified in the final revelation on the
subject to be a thousand years. Judged by the laws of inductive
reasoning the theory that there is to be a simultaneous resurrection of
the bodies of believers and unbelievers rests upon one of two faulty
processes:

(1) either the well intentioned but careless and inadequate observation
of particulars, in other words, the “fallacy of insufficient
observation,” or

(2) the deliberate isolation and distortion of certain particulars
together with the ignoring of essential particulars which detract from
the tenability of the theory. It is impossible to reach a sound
generalization through either of these procedures.

Part 6
======

IV The Relation of Logic to Interpretation (continued)
------------------------------------------------------

**Deduction**

“Deduction as contrasted with induction is reasoning from the general to
the particular,” and “it means the drawing out of a particular
proposition or conclusion from the universal premise.” “The product of
deduction is the Syllogism proper. Syllogisms are divided, by the form
of the judgments embodied in them, into categorical and hypothetical.”
In the categorical syllogism the three propositions, namely, the major
and minor premises and the conclusion, are stated categorically
(Example, The worship of graven images is gross idolatry; Israel
worshiped a graven image of gold while encamped at Sinai; therefore,
Israel was guilty of gross idolatry).

In the hypothetical syllogism “the reasoning turns upon some
hypothetical judgment embodied in the major premise.” Both of these
forms of the syllogism are divided into monosyllogisms and
polysyllogisms, the former having one argument and the latter being
constituted of two or more related arguments. Hypothetical syllogisms,
as well as the categorical forms, are frequently employed in
interpretational writings. The hypothetical monosyllogism takes two
forms,

(1) conjunctive (Example, If the Bible proclaims the only way of
salvation all men ought to heed its testimony; but it does proclaim the
only way of salvation; therefore, all men ought to heed its testimony);

(2) disjunctive (Example, The Bible is either the product of human
reason or a revelation from God; it is a revelation from God; therefore,
it is not a product of human reason).

The hypothetical polysyllogism takes several forms only one of which
will be mentioned here, namely, that which has been called the *horned
syllogism*, or the *dilemma* in the strict sense. It is composed of “a
plurality of conditional antecedents all having one common consequent.”
It is called the *horned syllogism* “because it confronts an opponent
with two assumptions, on which it tosses him as on horns from one to the
other, each being equally fatal to him” (Example, If we are confronted
with obstacles in Christian service which we can overcome we ought not
to worry about them; if we are confronted with obstacles in Christian
service which we cannot overcome we ought not to worry about them; but
all obstacles in Christian service can or cannot be overcome; therefore,
we ought not to worry about the obstacles in Christian service). Further
subdivision of the syllogism is not necessary for the purpose of this
discussion.

As a means of analysis the syllogistic form of argument is of great
value, but it is also the means of many false conclusions. The necessity
of testing the premises of a syllogistic statement is ever present when
this form of argument is employed. Dr. Gregory emphasizes in his text
this necessity when studying the arguments of even great intellectual
leaders: “In all deductive reasoning, it should be remembered, that the
conclusion can never be any more certain than the premises.
Forgetfulness of this is the source of many and great errors in both
Science and Philosophy.” This caution is of peculiar force when
considering theological conclusions.

Dr. G. Frederick Wright<sup>**[<sup>19</sup>](#sdfootnote19sym)**</sup>
illustrates this forcefully: “A Cretan once remarked that all Cretans
were liars and knaves. A bystander interposed: ‘But you are a Cretan!’
Whereupon a neighbor added, ‘Then, of course, he is a liar, and his
testimony is worthless.’ To put this reasoning in the syllogistic form,
it stands thus:

(a) All Cretans are liars: (major premise);

(b) This man is a Cretan: (minor premise);

(c) Therefore he is a liar: (conclusion).

To this form all syllogisms in deductive logic can be reduced. But in
such reasoning the question arises, How do we know *all*, before we know
*each*? By what authority do we pronounce all Cretans liars and knaves
before the character of this particular Cretan has been observed?

To vary the illustration, consider the syllogistic form of Hume’s
objection to the proof of miracles:

(a) All purported miracles are incredible;

(b) The resurrection of Christ is a purported miracle;

(c) Therefore the resurrection of Christ is incredible (or, as he would
say, incapable of being proved by human testimony).

But how are all miracles known to be incredible till the particular
evidence for this one is fully considered?

Another form of Hume’s argument illustrates the point still better:

(a) All events which happened in the first century have a parallel in
those occurring in the eighteenth century;

(b) The resurrection of Christ has no parallel in the eighteenth
century;

(c) Therefore it is incredible that it really occurred in the first
century.

It is plain here, that the thing needing proof is the major premise from
which the conclusion is drawn. On what grounds is it decided that the
historical developments of the eighteenth century will perfectly
correspond to those of the first? There is no known universal principle
from which that conclusion follows.

Since deduction is based on a previous generalization [which, in turn,
is arrived at by induction], the process may easily be made to conceal
the real steps of the reasoning. In a properly constructed syllogism the
conclusion comes out of the premises mechanically. The difficulty lies
in showing how it legitimately got into the premises. In the conclusion
the *implicit* contents of the premises are *explicitly* stated. But the
conclusion must first have been *involved*, before it could be *evolved*
[italics of the latter sentence mine].

The major and minor premises may with propriety be compared to the upper
and the nether millstones, between which the coarser products of our
thought are ground to powder. But nothing can reach the bag which was
not first put in at the hopper. However important to clearance the
process of deduction may be, it is utterly unproductive of material
additions to knowledge. On the other hand, induction is productive.
Inductive logic always holds us down to the vicinity of facts, and
compels us to interrogate nature as to what really is. The Baconian
method first chastens arrogance and curbs fancy, even though at length
it furnishes wings on which to rise far higher than the imagination
could otherwise soar.”

In contrast to the conclusion that there shall be resurrections of the
just and unjust separated by an extended period of time, which
necessarily results from an inductive study of all the New Testament
particulars, the claim that the theological doctrine of a simultaneous
resurrection of believers and unbelievers “at the end of the world” is
the result of a valid deduction should be tested by every Bible student
prejudiced in favor of that conclusion only by creedal statements.

Calling to mind the meaning of logical deduction that it is the drawing
out of a particular proposition or conclusion from the universal
premise, the question arises at once, Is the premise from which this
conclusion is drawn Scripturally true? For strenuous mental drill
perhaps nothing can be more highly recommended to the student than to
attempt to find the Scripture material for this assumed universal
premise and construct a syllogistic statement which logically results in
the conclusion under discussion. No theologian has ever accomplished
this, but that fact should not discourage an honest student if he has
determined to accept this conclusion, for he must make the attempt or
abandon a dogmatic position on the matter. A sincere attempt to prove
the tenability of a wrong conclusion has often been used of God to lead
the seeker after truth into the light of the Word.

Referring to the same example, if by induction it is proved that the New
Testament teaches the doctrine of two resurrections separated by a
period of time and if this is the only generalization possible from an
enumeration and careful analysis of all the New Testament particulars,
it must follow that any assumed universal premise from which the
conclusion is drawn that there is to be a simultaneous general
resurrection is Scripturally false. The second and third fundamental
laws of logic demand this for we are here confronted with
contradictories and both can not be true. It is a significant fact that
the written defenses of the doctrine of a simultaneous general
resurrection are faulty in procedure in one, two, or all of the
following manners:

(1) The isolation and misapplication of a part of the essential
particulars, while ignoring the rest, as a basis for a universal premise
which is faulty because it is not founded on the data of the whole field
of evidence;

(2) the citation of lists of proof texts without analysis under
unwarranted and gratuitous statements with which the texts themselves
are at variance;

(3) the never absent and gratuitous statement that Rev 20 does not refer
to the resurrection of the body and that there is no hint of two
resurrections elsewhere in the New Testament. Any deduction drawn from
premises thus formed is untenable.

Instead of deductively proving the desired conclusion such a process
proves it to be logically invalid, in other words, the premises being
inadequately grounded in the Scripture doctrine the deduction is
Scripturally invalid.

**Analogy**

Analogy involves “both induction and deduction, the inductive being the
principal element. As analogy depends upon some assumed likeness, its
kinds may be indicated by the kinds of properties in which the likeness
is found.” Three kinds are based upon resemblances: those of essential
properties, non-essential properties, and relations. There is also
analogy from contradictories. “Analogy based upon resemblance in
essential properties is the most valuable kind.”

In Biblical interpretation inference from analogy is sometimes useful,
but it is of little value excepting when used with strict attention to
*essential* resemblances or differences. The danger in its employment is
that the question as to how far the analogy holds true may not receive
adequate attention. This is especially true of inferences which follow
analogy based upon *resemblance of relations* (Example, There is a
relation between thought and language. Divine thought, satanic thought
and human thought alike depend upon language for intelligent
communication amongst men, but the analogy from the resemblance of the
relation between these classes of thought and language ends there)

Although language is the necessary vehicle for the expression of all
thought, the thinker must *control* the language which expresses his
thought. The control by the divine Thinker of the language of geniuses
such as Moses, Isaiah and Paul, as well as the language of sacred
writers of more limited natural ability, places it in a unique class.
The acceptance of this expressed thought not only results in the
individual believer in that peace with God which passes all
understanding but when generally accepted it results in its concomitant
also, namely, peaceful relations amongst men.

On the other hand, the control by Satan of the mind of such a genius as
Nietzsche places his language in an entirely different class. When it is
accepted and acted upon its repulsive doctrines concerning Jesus Christ
and His teachings and its abominable ideas concerning might and right
not only prevents any peace with God in the individual but causes a
whole people to run amuck bringing chaos, ruin and untold suffering upon
humanity. Again, there is a gulf between the expressed thought of mere
human genius and the expressed thought of the divinely controlled
writers of the Bible.

There is much truth which is discoverable by the human mind. The person
and attributes of God and His eternal purposes are not discoverable
apart from His revelation. Any truth concerning the things of God put
forth by man is only the reflected truth from the divinely inspired Word
which for all time has been spoken and recorded. There can be no
argument by analogy that the writings of all geniuses are divinely
inspired. Two facts must classify all writings: the source of their
ideas and the effect of those ideas when accepted and tested as rules of
life. Mere human genius has never risen above idealism. But idealism
does not carry with it the dynamic power for its own realization. The
Bible not only holds before man the loftiest idealism, but it alone
reveals the dynamic power by which it may be realized and the conditions
on which this power may be secured.

When we turn to analogy based upon essential properties we sometimes
find it helpful in grasping the reality of that which must be received
by faith (Example, All men of rational mentality recognize the reality
of natural human life. On the other hand, many men deny the reality of
that which the Scriptures reveal as “eternal life,” this term being a
technical one which connotes far more than mere continued existence).

In the passages which treat of eternal life, several of the terms which
express essential properties of natural life are employed in revealing
the reality of eternal life.

Both are said to follow a begetting process,-natural life following
generation in the flesh and eternal life following regeneration by the
Spirit.

Both are said to issue through birth,-the one through natural birth and
the other through spiritual birth, the fact of the latter being
expressed in the phrases “born of the Spirit,” “born again,” and “born
of God”; two natures are attributed in the Scriptures to man, the Adam
nature which is the common inheritance of all men and the divine nature
of which the “born again” man only is partaker in addition to the Adam
nature

Both the possession of natural life and the imparted divine life are
said to be the result of the creative power of God,-man created in the
image of God and, having lost his high estate, recreated as part and
parcel of the “new creation”; natural life as well as eternal life is
said to be everlasting, and in harmony with this the thought of
annihilation is foreign to the Scripture teaching concerning death.

The following formula expresses the Scripture teaching concerning life
and death: the man born but once [natural birth] must die twice [pass
through the transitional experiences of natural death and “the second
death”]; while the man born twice may never die, the happy experience of
translation replacing the dissolution of death should the Lord come
during the believer’s lifetime in the flesh, and at the most must die
but one [natural death]. The *fact* of eternal life must be accepted by
faith, but the analogy between natural life and eternal life based upon
the resemblance of essential properties, as cited above, helps the
believer to grasp the *reality* of eternal life as a present possession.

In conclusion, the foregoing discussion brings out the fact that, within
the province of logical procedure, Biblical interpretation is chiefly
dependent upon the inductive method. While it is true that the deductive
method is valuable in testing premises and conclusions by reducing
thoughts to a syllogistic statement, and while it is true that the
analogic method is helpful within certain prescribed limits, the fact
must never be overlooked by the student that thematic generals of
Scripture can be logically formulated only as a result of inductive
study of their respective particulars.

No theological conclusion based upon an extrabiblical general is of any
value to the Bible student. Calling to mind the dictum of Dr. Gregory
that a conclusion can be no more certain than the premises from which it
is drawn, the premises of all theological deductions should be carefully
tested by comparison with the respective concordant teachings of the
Scriptures. Experienced Bible expositors recognize certain catch phrases
in theological literature as signals which, like the bell buoys of a
harbor channel, sound a warning of hidden dangers. These catch phrases
are surface symptoms which indicate that fallacious premises are at the
bottom of the reasoning. The following and similar phrases should put
the student on his guard: “in the light of modern scientific research,”
“judged by twentieth century learning,” “crass literalism,”
“accommodation to the ‘thought forms’ of the first century,” “outworn
Jewish notions,” etc. The reasoning in which such phrases occur will be
found, when analyzed, to contain indirect denials of the inspiration of
the Scriptures.

Protestant theology as it emerged in its variant forms out of the
Reformation period is a composite system. It is not only composed of
doctrines which were formulated as a result of *inductive* study of all
the particulars of their respective Scripture themes, and on the
conclusions of which all believers have generally agreed; but it also
contains points *deductively* arrived at from premises arbitrarily set
up without reference to the Scripture particulars of their respective
themes, and on which points there has always been disagreement and of
necessity must always be controversy. This controversy divides on the
fundamental question. Shall *every* doctrine of our creed be formulated
only as a result of painstaking inductive study of all its Scripture
particulars, or shall we make exceptions to this rule and raise to
canonical authority arbitrary theological dicta on certain points
irrespective of the Scripture teaching?

Why should we insist upon the doctrine of regeneration as inductively
arrived at after taking account of all that the Scriptures reveal on the
subject, on the one hand, and accept an arbitrary theological statement
that there is to be a simultaneous resurrection of the just and the
unjust, on the other hand?

Why insist upon an inductively arrived at doctrine of blood sacrifice
and accept an arbitrary and unscriptural dictum that there is to be one
general assize at the end of the world into which both the just and the
unjust are to be brought?

Why insist upon all the minutiae of prophetic and fulfilled testimony
concerning the first advent of Christ and throw overboard many of the
distinguishing features of the prophecies concerning His second advent?

Why insist upon the inductive study of Scripture testimony concerning
every feature of salvation truth and balk at the application of this
method of study concerning the Scriptural distinctions in the revelation
of kingdom truth?

Why insist upon an inductively formulated doctrine of the Holy Spirit
and ignore the Scripture details of the provision for a victorious life
in the Spirit?

Why enter protests against Professor Kent’s Shorter Bible while at the
same time employing a method of interpretation which effectually reduces
the student’s Bible to a shorter Bible and cuts him off from great
sections of revelatory matter which contain precious promises and rich
spiritual food as well as light on God’s revealed program of the ages?

Every theme of the Scriptures must be studied inductively, collating,
observing, classifying and analyzing all the passages which treat upon
it. There is no other way to know all that God has spoken on any
revealed subject. The student should not be disturbed by the slurs cast
upon this serious work.

Some writers have rather contemptuously spoken of this inductive study
as a “hop, skip and jump” method. A recent writer calls it, “seining
through the Bible for proof texts.” It only needs the reminder for an
effectual answer to such thoughtless remarks that if some one had not
“hopped” from passage to passage of those which treat of the doctrine of
the blood sacrifice, and for the time “skipped” irrelevant passages,
there would be no completely formulated statement of the doctrine; and
that if faithful expositors had not gone “seining” through the
Scriptures for all the detached and fragmentary details of the subject
of justification that great doctrine never would have been put into such
complete form from all the Scripture particulars that sinners saved by
grace may grasp the meaning of it and have the assurance that they have
been in God’s court and have been justified forever through faith in
Christ.

The student who is not prepared to lay aside all prejudice and has not
become possessed with a desire to know “the whole counsel of God” is
ever in danger of being led into controversy over the mere captions of
theological systems, sharing in all the misunderstandings that result
there from. Theological captions are words with which prejudiced writers
often conjure. The business of the seeker after a fuller knowledge of
the Lord and His truth is to lay aside all prejudice and search for all
the particulars which God has revealed on each and every theme of
revelation. A prayerful classification and analysis of the data thus
brought together will bring that fuller knowledge, blessing and joy
which the true seeker craves.

Part 7
======

V Four Prerequisites
--------------------

Under the tests required by the Bible it proves itself to be unlike any
other literature. The world recognizes it only as a fallible collection
of ancient religious lore, but the child of God proves its divine origin
daily as the Spirit author discloses its hidden riches in response to
his believing search. There are four Scripture terms which, in their
Biblical significance, differentiate the Bible from all other writings.
In both their interrelations and separate functions these Scripture
facts are basic to an understanding of the Bible. All trustworthy
principles of interpretation operate in conformity to these four facts
and no reliable principle of Scripture explanation is divorceable from
them. The truth of this is so generally recognized that those who
attempt to force an extra-Biblical interpretation on the Bible either
deny or tone down the Scriptural significance of these terms.

These four fundamental facts are:

(**1) Revelation** - both the subject matter imparted from the mind of
God and the method of that impartation;

**(2) Inspiration** - the divine means employed by which the revelatory
matter is accurately transmitted;

**(3) Illumination** - the Spirit’s action upon the mind of the
believer, enabling him to perceive the truth of the divine disclosures;
and

**(4) Interpretation** - explanation of the meaning of the verbal
expression through which God’s thoughts are transmitted, applied in the
Bible to both isolated subjects and the systemic development of themes
and doctrines.

These terms taken collectively express the necessary elements for the
transmittance of God’s thoughts to the mind of man. On the other hand,
it is essential that their respective functions should be clearly
differentiated. This we may do only in outline in this course.

***The Function of Revelation*****.**

The function of divine revelation is to *reveal*. Its office is to
uncover, bring to light and make known those things of God which man
cannot otherwise know. This God has done through His recorded Word. If
the Word is not received ignorance must result. Man can not know God
apart from His revelation of Himself. He can not know the way of life
apart from God’s disclosures on the subject. He has never been able to
guess God’s purpose in the earth. He knows it only because it has been
made a subject of revelation.

“Moreover, although writing is not essential to revelation as thus
defined, ‘the idea of a written revelation may be said to be logically
involved in the notion of a living God. Speech is natural to spirit; and
if God is by nature spirit it will be to Him a matter of nature to
reveal Himself’” (quoted, Fairbairn, *Christ in Mod. Theo*., p. 496).

Dr. Arthur T. Pierson defined revelation thus: “Revelation is the divine
impartation and communication of truth to the mind of man, whatever be
its mode or channel,” citing Rom 1:17; 16:25; Eph 3:3–5; Amos
3:7.<sup>**[<sup>20</sup>](#sdfootnote20sym)**</sup> Angus-Green give
the following: “The word revelation (lit. *drawing back the veil*) is
the Latin equivalent of the Greek apokalupsis (Apocalypse), an
uncovering.”<sup>**[<sup>21</sup>](#sdfootnote21sym)**</sup>

There are, among others, three facts the believing acceptance of which
is necessary to an understanding, and therefore an interpretation, of
the divine revelation.

**(1)*****The Authoritativeness of the Scripture**s*. Reliance upon the
authoritativeness of God’s recorded Word is the bedrock requirement of
one who would become a Biblically correct interpreter of the
significance of that selfsame Word.

“What think ye of Christ?” divides all classes of humanity into two
groups-believers and unbelievers. It is not a matter of intellectuality,
but a heart adjustment to God in Christ. Dr. Pierson puts it thus: “It
is a unique law of the spiritual life, that knowing is not in order to
believing, but believing is in order to knowing. Faith is not the
result, as the condition, of the highest knowledge. God sent Isaiah to
say to Ahaz, ‘If ye will not believe, surely ye shall not be
established’ (Isa 7:9). The deep meaning is that if they (Judah) *would
not believe they would not be established in
knowledge*.”<sup>**[<sup>22</sup>](#sdfootnote22sym)**</sup>

**(2)*****Progressiveness in the Divine Revelation***. Revelation had a
beginning and ending in time. Between these termini, separated by many
centuries, God revealed His doctrine, plans and eternal purpose
gradually, progressively, unfolding the revelatory bloom petal by petal.

It is fundamental to Biblically correct interpretations that not only
the fact of the progressiveness of these unfoldings be taken into
account, but, because of this fact, systematical study of them is
necessary for the acquirement of a balanced knowledge of the Truth.

**(3)*****Orderliness in the Progress of the Divine Purpose***. Has God
revealed an orderly sequence of events through and by which His eternal
purpose in the earth has been, is being and will be accomplished? An
affirmative answer starts the student on that straight and narrow way
which leads to the fullest possible knowledge of God’s programmed
purpose, with very definite and circumscribed instructions for his
service in the dispensational age in which he lives. On the other hand,
a negative answer leads inevitably into the broad way of destructive
interpretation which, by blurring the clear dispensational lines of
demarcation in the Word, admits a wide scope of mere human opinion
concerning not only the Christian’s present-age service but the
trustworthiness of predictive prophecy.

Although the Scriptures do not outline God’s complete program in any one
context, they do reveal here and there segments of it, varying in
comprehensiveness, which, when studied together, furnish a knowledge of
the successive steps of God’s purpose so far as He has revealed it.
There is a law of revelation, ignored by many theologians, which the
student should keep clearly in mind, namely, that wherever portions of
the divine program are treated in the Bible the great divisional events
are *found in the same sequence*.

An example of this is found in the comparison of Deut 30:1–10 and Acts
15:13–18. This comparison will disclose the synchronizing steps and
those which are complementary.

***The Function of Divine Inspiration***.

Divine inspiration of the Scriptures and the revelation disclosed by
means of it are inseparable. In fact, the doctrine of Scripture
inspiration is one of the disclosures of God’s revelation, and not
something extraneous to it. It is God, the Spirit, who spoke through a
lowly fisherman that classic Scripture, “Holy men of old spoke as they
were moved by the Holy Ghost” (2 Peter 1:21; cf. 2 Tim 3:16).

Although revelation and inspiration are thus inseparably bound together
in the Scriptures as not only exhibited in these instances but by
specific treatment in 1 Cor 2, for application to all revelation, an
important distinction in their relation to the content of Scripture
should be made. Not all Scripture is revelation of *God’s mind and
will*. On the other hand, all *Scripture is divinely inspired*. Again we
quote:

“Every student must observe what in Holy Scripture carries authority,
and what only accuracy. Satan’s words to Eve (Gen 3:5), though
accurately recorded, are false and misleading in intention and
sentiment, exactly contrary to God’s mind. The greater part of the book
of Job, though an inspired record of events and sayings, is expressly
disowned of God as not rightly spoken (Job 42:7). We must therefore
discriminate and distinguish *three degrees of authority* in the
inspired record:

(1) An authoritative narrative where sentiments and acts are not
sanctioned and may be disowned as disapproved of God.

(2) An authoritative narrative where sentiments and acts are not
expressly approved or disapproved and must be judged by the general
standards of Scripture teaching.

(3) An authoritative narrative where the sentiments and acts are
inspired and controlled by the Spirit of God, and therefore represent
His mind and will.

“Lack of proper discrimination in matters such as these has often led to
much confusion and needless controversy. But, with these careful
limitations, Verbal Inspiration is an absolute necessity if, in any
proper sense, there be divine inspiration at all. As Dean Burgon has
expressed it, what music would be without notes, a mathematical sum
without figures, so would an inspired book be without words controlled
by the inspiring
Spirit.”<sup>**[<sup>23</sup>](#sdfootnote23sym)**</sup>

If God by inspiration has transmitted His revelation accurately through
the medium of language-and this accurate transmission by means of words
is the function of inspiration-it follows that close attention and
loyalty to the words *as transmitted*, and not as some theologians wrest
them to fit extra-Biblical theories, are fundamental to Biblically
correct interpretations.

***The Function of Divine Illumination*****.**

In various grammatical forms the Greek word *photizo*-to illuminate,
give light to, shine-occurs eleven times in the N.T. In one passage only
it is used to denote physical light (Luke 11:36). In the realm of the
spiritual it is used in three senses: revelatory (Example, 2 Tim 1:10);
lighting with the glory of God (Example, Rev 21:23); and the
illuminating of the human heart (Example, Eph 1:18; 3:9; Heb 6:4;
10:32). In these latter passages the synonymous words, “illuminated” and
“enlightened,” are both employed in the A.V.

Extended example: Eph 1:17–19.

***The Function of Biblical Interpretation*****.**

The Bible employs the word *interpretation* in two of its defined
senses, namely (1) Explanation (Examples, pesher, interpretation,
occurring 31 times in Dan 2:4–7:16; hermeneuo, interpretation, Heb 7:2).
(2) Translation of words from another language (Example, the Lord’s cry
on the cross, Mark 15:34). The general meaning of the word, as used in
the Bible, is explanation, making clear what otherwise would be obscure.

Biblical interpretation, as employed under the direction of the Spirit
by the sacred writers, predicates an understandable Bible. Concerning
the adaptability of the Bible to human capacity, Perry Wayland Sinks
writes: “The Bible even as literature-and both in its origin and
history-is a human as well as divine Book. It is *human* in that it is
*to* and *for* man, and not to and for supernatural intelligences or the
conceived populations of other planets; it is *divine* in that it is
*of* God and *from*
God.”<sup>**[<sup>24</sup>](#sdfootnote24sym)**</sup>

VI Four General Rules of Interpretation
---------------------------------------

These four general rules of interpretation, all finding their place
under the inductive method of study, are incorporated in all standard
works on Hermeneutics. The order found in, and the quotations from,
these various works are followed in this section. “These are not
peculiar to Scripture, but simply bespeak in regard to it those
qualities of candor and intelligent common sense which the study of any
literature requires.

**The first rule of Biblical interpretation is: Interpret
grammatically**

Give due regard to the meaning of words, the form of sentences, and the
peculiarities of idiom in the language employed. The sense of Scripture
is to be determined by the words: a true knowledge of the words is the
knowledge of the sense. The words of Scripture must be taken in their
common meaning, unless such meaning is shown to be inconsistent with
other words in the sentence, with argument or context, or with other
parts of Scripture.

The true meaning of any passage of Scripture, then, is not every sense
which the words will bear, nor is it every sense which is true in
itself, but that which is intended by the inspired writers, or even by
the Holy Spirit, though imperfectly understood by the writers
themselves.”<sup>**[<sup>25</sup>](#sdfootnote25sym)**</sup>

Out of the multitude of examples cited in the various texts, one from
Lockhart on Ephesians 2:8 may be cited. “For by grace are ye saved
through faith; and that not of yourselves: *it is* the gift of God.” He
says: “We may ask, what is the gift of God? Many would answer, ‘grace,’
many others, ‘faith,’ some, ‘salvation.’ But what does the grammar
require?” After eliminating “grace” and “faith” as the antecedents of
“that,” he proceeds: “The only other possible antecedent is the
salvation expressed by the verb ‘saved.’ Some have objected that the
Greek noun for salvation is feminine; but we must notice that salvation
is here expressed by the verb, and Greek grammar again requires that a
pronoun which refers to the action of a verb for its antecedent must be
neuter.

This exactly suits the case; and the meaning is, Ye are saved by grace
through faith; but the salvation is not of yourselves, it is the gift of
God. Here the interpretation that accords with the grammar is reasonable
and satisfactory.”<sup>**[<sup>26</sup>](#sdfootnote26sym)**</sup> I
have pointed out before, however, that the observance of all grammatical
requirements often leaves one short of the meaning of the doctrinal
contents of the text. Cellérier has this in mind when he says: “Suppose
that he [an interpreter] undertakes to explain the words of Jesus to the
paralytic: ‘My son, thy sins be forgiven thee’ (Mark 2:5), Grammatical
Hermeneutics may readily do its work, but it will not fathom the depth
of meaning which these words
contain.”<sup>**[<sup>27</sup>](#sdfootnote27sym)**</sup>

**The second rule of interpretation is: “Interpret according to the
context.”**

The meaning of a word will often be modified by the connection in which
it is used. This rule is often of great theological
importance.”<sup>**[<sup>28</sup>](#sdfootnote28sym)**</sup> (Examples:
Various meanings of *Faith*, *Flesh*, *Salvation*, *Grace*, etc.). “The
study of the context is the most legitimate, efficacious, and
trustworthy resource at the command of the interpreter. Nothing can be
more convenient than to explain an author by himself, and to have
recourse to the entire train of thought. It is much less easy for
sophism to abuse this mode of interpretation than that of dealing with
etymology, philology, and exceptions of
syntax.”<sup>**[<sup>29</sup>](#sdfootnote29sym)**</sup> Although these
latter are often valuable aids, they may also be pushed to harmful
effects. (Example: The etymological study of some words indicates that
their significance has entirely departed from the root meaning.

On the ground of etymology, therefore, it would be misleading for an
interpreter to hold to the root meaning in such cases). One of the most
helpful results of contextual study is furnished by the definitions of
the author’s own terms. (Examples: “That the man of God may be perfect,
thoroughly furnished unto every good work.” 2 Tim 3:17. By *perfect*
here is meant, “Thoroughly furnished” for service. There are a number of
contexts in which the word *perfect* needs the light from the context
for its exact meaning. In such passages the thought is not perfection in
its widest sense, but maturity in a specified line of experience or
endeavor.)

**The third rule of interpretation is: “Regard the scope or design of
the book itself, or some large section in which the words and
expressions occur.”**

Sometimes the context does not give all the light needed to determine
the meaning of a word or a phrase. In such cases the third rule is
necessary.<sup>**[<sup>30</sup>](#sdfootnote30sym)**</sup> The purpose
in writing a book is often clearly mentioned, especially in the N.T.
Epistles. This avowed purpose will often throw light on passages
otherwise obscure. Terry gives the following example: “There can be no
doubt that, after his opening salutation and personal address, the
apostle [Paul] announces his great theme [of Romans] in verse 16 of the
first chapter.

It is *the Gospel considered as the power of God unto salvation to every
believer, to the Jew first, and also to the Greek*. .It manifestly
expresses, in a happy personal way, the scope of the entire epistle.”
After an analysis of the entire epistle, he says: “It will be found that
a proper attention to this general plan and scope of the Epistle will
greatly help to the understanding of its smaller
sections.”<sup>**[<sup>31</sup>](#sdfootnote31sym)**</sup>

**The fourth and most comprehensive rule of Biblical interpretation is:
Compare Scripture with Scripture.**

A Scripture truth is really the consistent explanation of all that
Scripture teaches in reference to the question examined; and a Scripture
duty is the consistent explanation of all the precepts of Scripture on
the duty.”<sup>**[<sup>32</sup>](#sdfootnote32sym)**</sup> As has
already been noted, this procedure was not employed until the
Reformation; and sound hermeneutics was not developed until this method
was adopted. It results in “the analogy of faith which regulates the
interpretation of each passage in conformity with the whole tenor of
revealed truth.” Under this general head Cellérier also says: “To admit
a positive revelation and to reject things positively revealed is a
great inconsistency.”<sup>**[<sup>33</sup>](#sdfootnote33sym)**</sup>
This inconsistency is not uncommon. Some interpreters who claim to
accept the Bible as the revealed Word of God, reject specific
revelations in it because these do not fit into the framework of their
preconceived theology.

Part 8
======

VII Figurative Language
-----------------------

The literature of all lands and tongues abounds in figurative language.
The Scriptures are no exception to this universal fact. In this
connection Cellérier says: “It should be remembered, however, that this
is no concession to those who deny the inspiration of the Word, since a
figure or parable may be just as much inspired as a rigid
syllogism.”<sup>**[<sup>34</sup>](#sdfootnote34sym)**</sup> Our Lord’s
speech was replete with all kinds of figures, including under tropical
words and phrases, *metaphorical* (Ex. “I am the true vine.”),
*synecdochical* (Ex. “Ye shall drink indeed of my cup.”), *metonymical*
(Ex. “If I wash thee not,” etc.) expressions; as well as the various
forms of allegories, as parables, types and symbols. The various tropes
are easily recognizable as figures, and the meaning is generally clear
from the context.

In determining whether a word is tropical or literal Lockhart says: “It
is usually sufficient to inquire in any case of doubt, Does the literal
make good sense? If the literal proves to be *absurd*, or in any way
*inconsistent*, either with other parts of the sentence or with the
nature of the things discussed, we may conclude with tolerable certainty
that the language is figurative.” On the other hand, he points out that
it is important to look for a literal meaning before accepting one that
is figurative. “Many interpreters have understood Zion to be a figure,
and the Christian church to be really meant. This is purely a surmise,
as the Psalm makes no allusion to a future development, nor to any
characteristics of the church that would not better apply to the literal
city of Jerusalem. This Psalm is a fine hymn of praise to the sacred
capital of the Jewish nation; and a figurative view robs the piece of
its beautiful
patriotism.”<sup>**[<sup>35</sup>](#sdfootnote35sym)**</sup>

These reasons for not taking the word as figurative are valid, but they
are buttressed with other teachings of the Scriptures which make it very
clear that Zion is always connected with Jerusalem in meaning. As Dr.
Scofield says: “Zion and Jerusalem mean Zion and Jerusalem, not the
church. The church is not in prophecy at all. His (Christ’s) purpose to
form a church during His rejection by Israel is never disclosed until
announced by Jesus Himself” (Matt 16:18; Eph
3:3–10).<sup>**[<sup>36</sup>](#sdfootnote36sym)**</sup>

***Interpretation of Allegories***: “The great rule of interpretation of
allegories is to ascertain the scope of the allegory either by reference
to the context or to parallel passages; and to seize, the main truth
which it is intended to set forth, interpreting, all accessories in
harmony with the central
truth.”<sup>**[<sup>37</sup>](#sdfootnote37sym)**</sup> In the study of
allegories of various kinds, namely, parables, types and symbols, the
interpreter must be careful not to treat plain statements of Scripture
as is demanded of language couched in figurative expressions.

There is all the difference possible in interpreting a Scripture
allegory, on the one hand, and the allegorizing of a plain Scripture on
the other hand. Although the latter violates the rules of sound
hermeneutics by changing the plain intent of the author, this system is
defended by those who have to resort to it to make plausible the creedal
tenets they hold. The defenders of the postmillennial and amillennial
systems openly espouse the allegorizing of plain Scriptures to meet the
needs of their systems of interpretation, a fair example being
Wyngaarden’s rather recent work, *The Future of the Kingdom and
Fulfillment*.

***Single Sense of Figurative Language***: The literal sense of the
words employed in a figure of speech is not to be taken as the meaning
of the figure, but rather the sense intended by the use of the figure.
In all such instances, therefore, there is but one meaning. In such
cases the literal is not the sense. In this connection Cellérier says:
“Revelation has been clothed with popular forms strongly impressed with
the habits of the East, that is to say, with metaphorical, poetical, and
parabolic forms, which convey a meaning different from that of the
literal sense of the words. But even then there are not two senses, the
literal and metaphorical. The metaphorical is alone the real sense; the
literal does not exist as a sense; it is only the vehicle of the former;
it contains in itself no result, no truth. There is therefore only one
true sense.”<sup>**[<sup>38</sup>](#sdfootnote38sym)**</sup>

***Parable***-“A short fictitious narrative from which a moral or
spiritual truth is drawn; as, the *parables* of Christ” (Webster).

The Lord used parables constantly in his teaching. Several classified
lists of these parables have been published. Few of such classified
lists have met with general agreement by interpreters. Perhaps the most
profitable exercise would be for the student to make up his own
classified list, proceeding under the laws of hermeneutics in the task.
One parable only, that of the two sons, will be analyzed in class as an
example for such interpretation. Analysis given orally.

As a result of this analysis the professor offers the following caution:
In the use of the parables spoken by the Lord before the cross, clearly
applicable under pre-Cross conditions, the following rules should be
kept in mind to safeguard the teaching from confusing applications: (1)
Keep the application true to the principles of grace. Avoid any
compromise with the idea of human merit in a sinner’s approach to God.
(2) Keep the teaching true to the terms of the gospel. Avoid
applications which are confusing on the point of faith, and not works,
required for salvation. (3) Keep the applications true to the principles
governing the walk of the believer in the Spirit.

Consistently following these rules will save one’s ministry from
bringing confusion into the minds of inquirers. The unsaved have
problems enough without the introduction of needless ones under our
ministry.

***Types***-“As an Allegory is a double representation in *words*, a
Type is a double representation in *action*; the literal being intended
and planned to represent the spiritual” (Angus-Green). Many of the best
interpreters do not recognize as a type any allegory unless specifically
used as such in the Scriptures. The story of Joseph and his brethren is
a beautiful illustration of many phases of the Lord Jesus’ life and his
church, but it is not mentioned as a type.

“A type may be (a) A person (Ex. Adam-Christ, Rom 5:14); (b) An event
(Ex. the events of Exodus (1 Cor 10:11, mar.); (c) A thing (Temple
veil-human body of Christ, Heb 10:20); (d) An institution (Ex. Jewish
high-priesthood-high-priesthood of Christ); (e) A ceremonial (Ex.
Passover-sacrifice of Christ, 1 Cor 5:7). Types occur most frequently in
the Pentateuch, but are found, more sparingly, elsewhere. The antitype,
or fulfillment of the type, is found, usually, in the New Testament.

***Interpretation***: A type must never be used to teach a doctrine, but
only to illustrate a doctrine elsewhere explicitly taught (Ex. John
3:14-1 Cor 5:7).”<sup>**[<sup>39</sup>](#sdfootnote39sym)**</sup>

*Symbols*-“Other outward representations of spiritual truths are
*Symbols*. Generally speaking, the Type is prefigurative, the Symbol
illustrative of what already exists (Ex. of Symbols: Bread and wine
served at the Lord’s Supper-His body and
blood).<sup>**[<sup>40</sup>](#sdfootnote40sym)**</sup>

Kinds of Symbols

1.  Miraculous. (Examples: Pillar of fire-cloud; burning lamp and
    smoking furnace, symbolizing God’s presence).

2.  Materials. (Examples: Articles of furniture in the tabernacle).

3.  Visional. (Examples: The highly figurative vision of John
    descriptive of the person and offices of Christ in Revelation 1).
    Visional symbols are the most numerous amongst the various kinds of
    symbols.

Symbolical numbers. Principal items.

1.  One-Deity, unity, one God, etc.

2.  Three-Triune God, tripartite nature of man, etc.

3.  Four-World number: four winds, four corners of the earth, etc.

4.  Six-Fullness of evil-trebled, the number of superman beast, 666.

5.  Seven-Completeness: perfection in the sense of completeness;
    covenant and dispensational number.

6.  Ten-Rounded fullness; fullness of human responsibility, etc.

7.  Twelve-Rule of God, twelve tribes, twelve thrones, etc.

8.  Forty-Testing: flood, fasting of Moses, Elijah and Christ, etc.

9.  Seventy-Prophetic number: rounded fullness, three score and ten
    years, seventy years of captivity, seventy times seven, seventy
    elders, etc.

10. Time symbols-Time (year), times (two years), half time (half year);
    three and a half years-42 months-1260 days.

**Symbolical colors**

Blue, heavenly; purple, royalty; scarlet, sacrifice; white, purity;
black, sin, death; red, blood, war.

**Symbolical metals**

Gold, deity; silver, redemption; brass, judgment; iron, strength; clay,
instability.

VIII Accommodation
------------------

There is a true and a false application of accommodation. Without
question the Scriptures contain evidences of accommodation. As we shall
see, as presented in another paragraph, Revelation itself is in a sense
an accommodation. Finding evidences of true accommodation in the
Scriptures, German writers developed a false application of the
principle of accommodation. Of this movement Terry says: “A method of
exposition, which owes its distinction to the celebrated J. S. Semler,
the father of the destructive school of German Rationalism, is known as
the Accommodation Theory. According to this theory the Scripture
teachings respecting Miracles, vicarious and expiatory sacrifice, the
resurrection, eternal judgment, and the existence of angels and demons,
are to be regarded as an accommodation to the superstitious notions,
prejudices, and ignorance of the time. The supernatural was thus set
aside.”<sup>**[<sup>41</sup>](#sdfootnote41sym)**</sup>

After reviewing the effects of such methods as applied to the N.T.,
Cellérier says: “If by accommodation, in this connection, is meant that
Christ and His apostles accommodated themselves to the ignorance and the
prejudice of the Jews, we reject it as derogatory to the character of
our Lord, and to that of the sacred writers of the N.T. Infidelity
itself has not impeached the rectitude and purity of the Savior. His
life has always been reckoned the embodiment of absolute perfection. No
one, after a careful perusal of the N.T. can point to any compromise
between truth and
error.”<sup>**[<sup>42</sup>](#sdfootnote42sym)**</sup>

The destructive critics and all modernists of our own days who reject
the authority of the Scriptures join in the chorus that the Lord Jesus
employed the thought forms of the first century although, as they claim,
He knew them to be untrue. If this is true, He was the greatest impostor
of History. We may, however, dismiss such theories of accommodation and
lay the cause of imposture at His detractors’ doors. Such false theories
of accommodation affect the matter or substance of revelation.

That there is a true form of accommodation which has to do with the
forms of language employed to express the divine thought we cannot
doubt. Sweet, in his article on Accommodation in the International
Standard Bible Encyclopedia, says: “The Bible teaches that in the height
and depth of His being God is unsearchable. His mind and the human mind
are *quantitatively* incommensurable. Man cannot by searching find out
God. His ways are not our ways and His thoughts are not our thoughts.
But, the Bible affirms with equal emphasis the essential *qualitative*
kinship of the divine and human constitutions. God is spirit and man is
spirit also. Man is made in the image of God and is made to know God.”

These two principles affirm the necessity and possibility of Revelation.
God’s thoughts may become ours through divine accommodation. He can thus
utter them in forms that are suited to our capacity to receive them.

There are two prominent classes of examples of this method of
accommodation, pointed out by
Lockhart:<sup>**[<sup>43</sup>](#sdfootnote43sym)**</sup>

**(1)*****Anthropomorphism***. Example: “I will put thee in a cleft of a
rock, and will cover thee with my hand until I have passed by: and I
will take away my hand and thou shalt see my back; but my face shall not
be seen.” (Exod 33:22, 23). Such examples can be multiplied many times
throughout the Bible, and such forms of expression which are foreign to
God’s being are deliberately used as accommodations to man’s modes of
thought to make God’s meaning plain.

**(2)*****Anthropopathism***. This has to do with the ascription of the
passions and emotions of man to God. This is as necessary as the
ascription of the members of the human body to God under the
anthropomorphic figures. Example: “Thus saith the Lord of hosts, I am
jealous for Zion with great jealousy, and I am jealous for her with
great fury.” (Zech 8:2). Israel’s idolatry brought out this strong
statement, the meaning of which could not be dodged.

Practically all the tropical language of the Scriptures is accommodation
to man’s ability to catch the ideas intended to be transmitted, but we
have not the space to mention other classifications.

In general one hermeneut has summed it up as follows: Wrong methods of
Accommodation seek to foist on the Scriptures ideas foreign to the
intent of the sacred writers, while the true method seeks the
elucidation of the truth.

IX Interpretation of Prophecy
-----------------------------

***Introduction***: “The *sine qua non* of true prophetic teaching is
that it must persistently and consistently remain Scriptural. The
testimony of the written word alone presents faithfully the future
purposes of God and of Satan. To give room to fancy or to human wisdom
and reasoning, is fatal in prophetical study. True prophetic teaching
stands the test of time simply because it is
Scriptural.”<sup>**[<sup>44</sup>](#sdfootnote44sym)**</sup>

Prophecy appears in the Bible with a two-fold purpose, the office of the
prophet being designed to fulfill this two-fold purpose. The prophet was
both a forth teller and a foreteller. He was both a teacher for the
times in which he lived, and the instrument through whom God transmitted
predictions for the future. The general rules of hermeneutics govern the
interpretation of the first aspect. Besides these some special
considerations should be heeded in connection with the interpretation of
the predictive portions of prophecy.

**Predictive Prophecy Demands Literal Interpretation.**

This is denied, of course, by those who spiritualize the prophetic
Scriptures, but the Bible itself has established this rule governing
prophetic interpretation by the fact that every record of fulfilled
prophecy exhibits literal fulfillment in detail. This is manifested by
the recurring use of the phrase in the New Testament, “that the
Scriptures might be fulfilled,” in connection with all the details of
the predictions in the Old Testament concerning the Person, life, and
work of the Lord Jesus Christ. Also this is true of the fulfilled
predictions concerning the nation Israel, and judgments meted out in
history to the heathen nations. Even when the predictive portions are
couched in figurative language, that which the figure stands for is to
have a literal fulfillment. On the other hand, very much of predictive
prophecy is given in nonfigurative, plainly understood language. To
treat such language allegorically, placing an entirely different meaning
upon the language than the plain intent of the words warrant, resolves
itself into a revision of the Spirit Author’s message. This some
so-called interpreters do not hesitate to do.

**The Means Used Vary.**

(1) Theophanic Manifestations.

(a) Appearances in human form, as when the Angel of Jehovah appeared and
conversed with men.

(b) By an audible voice, as at the birth, baptism and transfiguration of
the Lord. Also many instances recorded in the O.T.

(c) Also in other forms, as through animals, example: Balaam’s ass;
through inanimate things, example: the burning bush.

(2) Visions, Dreams and States of Ecstasy.

(a) Visions, such as Isaiah’s vision of the Lord, high and lifted up in
the temple.

(b) Dreams, such as Jacob’s at Bethel.

(c) Prophetical Ecstasy, such as John experienced on Patmos.

One difference between Dream and Ecstasy is that the dream might come to
a pagan, as in the case of Nebuchadnezzar; while ecstasy was the
experience only of men of God, as Daniel, Isaiah or Ezekiel.

**Some Rules Governing the Interpretation of Prophecy.**

(1) The Source of Prophecy (2 Pet 1:21). Not by the will of men, but
from God. This insures accuracy and trustworthiness (Isa 46:9–11).

(2) The Grand Divisions of Prophecy (1 Pet 1:10–12). The things related
to the two advents-“the sufferings of Christ, and the glories that
should follow them.”

(3) The Central Person of Prophecy (Rev 19:10). Jesus Christ spoke
through the prophets concerning Himself (Luke 24:27).

(4) The Fundamental Principle of Prophetic Interpretation (2 Pet 1:20).
*Idias* (tr. private) is generally used in the sense of “one’s own”
(John 1:11; 1 Cor 12:11; Matt 14:13). Prophecy is a harmonious whole. No
prophecy is to be interpreted by itself, but in the light of all God has
spoken on the subject. It then follows:

(a) That if prophecy is a self-consistent whole, unfulfilled prophecy is
as sure of fulfillment as was the case of any fulfilled prophecy.

(b) Moreover, the harmony of the prophetic Word does not allow for the
erroneously-called Spiritual fulfillment of some prophecies while
demanding the literal fulfillment of others.

(c) Although prophecy in some cases allows for partial fulfillment with
a fuller and final consummation, the former must not be made the reason
for denying the latter.

(d) As logic requires that cause must precede effect the application of
this law will settle many controversies. Example: “If Christ’s second
coming is the cause of the millennium, as the trend of prophecy
indicates, then His coming must be Premillennial.”-Hopkins.

**Practical Value of the Study of Prophecy.**

It reveals the purpose of God in Christ from the beginning to the final
and sure triumph. The “night” is still in progress. Prophecy gives light
on the path until the day dawn. Faith looks back to a finished work.
Hope is tied to the sure word of prophecy, and dispels the gloom in the
light of God’s own predictions.

[1](#sdfootnote1anc) Biblical Hermeneutics. p. 20.

[2](#sdfootnote2anc) *Ibid*, p.22.

[3](#sdfootnote3anc) Cellérier. *Manuel d’Hermeneutique Biblique*.
Elliott and Harsha tr. p. 1f.

[4](#sdfootnote4anc) Works to which I refer more frequently than other
texts, namely, *Biblical Hermeneutics* by Terry, and *Manuel d’
Hermeneutique* by Cellérier, trace the outline of this history. I am
indebted to these comments, besides material on the subject in general
ecclesiastical histories, for the factual matter in this section of the
Syllabus. Responsibility for the interpretative comments on these
historical facts is mine.

[5](#sdfootnote5anc) Historical Commentaries on the State of
Christianity. Tr. James Murdock. Vol. II., p. 150.

[6](#sdfootnote6anc) Mosheim. *Historical Commentaries on the State of
Christianity*. Tr. James Murdock, pp. 181,182, Vol. II.

[7](#sdfootnote7anc) Quoted by Cellérier from *Bannerman on
Inspiration*, p. 135.

[8](#sdfootnote8anc) Cellérier. *Man. d’ Her*. p. 17.

[9](#sdfootnote9anc) Terry. *Bib. Her*. p. 47.

[10](#sdfootnote10anc) Amos. The Vital Challenge of Biblical Certitude.
p. XIX.

[11](#sdfootnote11anc) Cellérier. *Man. d’ Her*. p. 17.

[12](#sdfootnote12anc) M. Cellerier, *Man. d’ Her*. tr. p. 26.

[13](#sdfootnote13anc) *Man. d’Her*. tr. p. 85.

[14](#sdfootnote14anc) Clinton Lockhart, Ph.D., LL.D., *Principles of
Interpretation*. p. 18ff.

[15](#sdfootnote15anc) The writer is indebted to the following authors
of works on Logic for definitional matter quoted in this section:
Gregory, Schuyler, Hamilton, Ueberweg and Mill.

[16](#sdfootnote16anc) A thorough course in Logic is earnestly urged as
a prerequisite to the study of Hermeneutics. At the Dallas Theological
Seminary it is a required prerequisite.

[17](#sdfootnote17anc) Only two of the judgments of this class are cited
here. An inductive study of all the judgments should be made.

[18](#sdfootnote18anc) *Numerical Bible*. Vol. The Gospels, p. 555.

[19](#sdfootnote19anc) *Logic of Christian Evidences*, Chapter II.

[20](#sdfootnote20anc) *Knowing The Scriptures*, p. 14.

[21](#sdfootnote21anc) *Cyclopedic Handbook of the Bible*, p. 125f.

[22](#sdfootnote22anc) *The Making of a Sermon*, Intro., p. 9.

[23](#sdfootnote23anc) Pierson, *Knowing the Scriptures*, p. 16f.

[24](#sdfootnote24anc) Sinks, *The Reign of the Manuscript*, p. 40f.  
Also lecture quotation from G. Frederick Wright, *Divine Authority of
the Bible*, p. 103.

[25](#sdfootnote25anc) Angus-Green, *Cyclopedic Handbook of the Bible*,
p. 180.

[26](#sdfootnote26anc) *Principles of Interpretation*, p. 83f.

[27](#sdfootnote27anc) *Man. d’Hermen.*, p. 53.

[28](#sdfootnote28anc) Angus-Green, *Cyclopedic Handbook of the Bible*,
p. 186.

[29](#sdfootnote29anc) Cellérier, *Man. d’Hermen*., p. 191.

[30](#sdfootnote30anc) Angus-Green, *Cyclopedic Handbook of the Bible*,
p. 192.

[31](#sdfootnote31anc) *Biblical Hermeneutics*, p. 111.

[32](#sdfootnote32anc) Angus-Green, *Cyclopedic Handbook of the Bible*,
p. 195.

[33](#sdfootnote33anc) Cellérier, *Man. d’Hermen*., p. 19.

[34](#sdfootnote34anc) *Man. D’Hermen.*, p. 142.

[35](#sdfootnote35anc) *Principles of Inter*., pp. 157 and 159.

[36](#sdfootnote36anc) *Corres. Course*, Vol. I, p. 128.

[37](#sdfootnote37anc) *Cyclo. Handbook of the Bible*, p. 224.

[38](#sdfootnote38anc) *Man. D*’*Hermen*., p. 41.

[39](#sdfootnote39anc) Scofield *Corres. Course*, p. 44f.

[40](#sdfootnote40anc) Angus-Green *Cyclo. Handbook of the Bible*, p.
221.

[41](#sdfootnote41anc) *Biblical Hermeneutics,*Intro., p. 62.

[42](#sdfootnote42anc) *Man. D’Hermen.*, p. 274.

[43](#sdfootnote43anc) *Principles of Interpretation*, p. 182.

[44](#sdfootnote44anc) C. Fred Lincoln, *Bibliotheca Sacra*, Vol. 94, p.
503.

***Austin Bible Church***

Pastor: Robert Bolender

7500 Woodrow Avenue, Austin, Texas 78757 USA

**Email: <pastorbob@austinbiblechurch.com>**

Web: http://www.austinbiblechurch.com
