---
title: Hillel
template: lesson.jade
---


<sup>Hillel</sup>

**Hillel**hilʹel [Heb *hillēl*—‘he greatly praised’; LXX Gk *Ellēl*].

Hillel “the Elder” (Heb *hazzākēn*; ca 60 b.c.-a.d. 20?). An eminent
Jewish scholar and rabbinic leader in Jerusalem in the early Herodian
period. Biographical details are scant, but it seems certain that Hillel
was a native of Babylonia (TB *Pesahim* 66a; *Sukkah* 20a). He came to
Jerusalem to study biblical exegesis, and Shemaiah and Abtalion, two of
the early great “expositors” (Heb *daršānîm*, TB *Pesahim* 70b), became
his teachers. Hillel excelled in the elucidation of legal rules
(Halakoth) from Scripture, and his zeal for Torah study, despite his
poverty, became a model for later students (TB *Yoma* 35b). Other
traditions state that Hillel, like Moses, lived one hundred twenty years
(*Sifre* Dt. xxxiv.7 [357]) and that he was descended from David (TB
*Ketuboth* 62b; “Rabbi” [ca a.d. 135–220] was descended from Hillel),
but these claims may be pious veneration rather than fact. It is still
debated whether Hillel was the father or grandfather of Gamaliel I, the
teacher of Paul (Acts 5:34; 22:3). The issue turns upon the questioned
existence of a certain Simeon, mentioned only in TB *Shabbath* 15a in
the rabbinic literature, who some scholars claimed was Hillel’s son (R.
T. Herford, “Pirke Aboth,” in APOT, II, 694; recently reasserted by
Guttmann, *Rabbinic Judaism*, p. 177; denied by E. Schürer, HJP2, II,
367).

Hillel became leader (Heb *nāśî*, “prince”) of the rabinic council after
giving three arguments for the priority of the paschal sacrifice over
the sabbath. The council had forgotten the Halakah on this issue and
consulted Hillel, who finally silenced their arguments by appealing to
previous tradition: “Thus have I heard from Shemaiah and Abtalion” (TB
*Pesahim* 66a).

Hillel’s exegesis was frequently opposed by Shammai (ca 50 b.c.-a.d.
30), a Judean who, like Hillel, gathered a school of disciples about
himself that continued after his death. Hillel generally favored a freer
interpretation of the biblical text than Shammai, who usually adhered to
the letter of the law. The difference between the two schools is
illustrated by the issue of Divorce, which centered on the phrase “some
indecency” (Heb *˓erwaṯ dāḇār*, lit “nakedness of a thing”) in Dt. 24:1.
The school of Shammai restricted the meaning of illicit sexual conduct
by focusing on *˓erwaṯ* (“shamefulness,” “nakedness”), but the
Hillelites emphasized *dāḇār* (“thing,” “matter”) and construed the
phrase to mean “*any* indecent thing,” even as trivial as spoiling the
husband’s food (TB *Gittin* 90a). This controversy lies behind the
question of the Pharisees in Mt. 19:3 (cf. Mk. 10:2), “Is it lawful to
divorce one’s wife *for any cause*?” The restriction of divorce to the
one cause of Unchastity in Mt. 5:32; 19:3 reflects the stricter
interpretation of the school of Shammai (SB, I, 312–320).

On one occasion a non-Jew came to Shammai and asked to become a
proselyte on the condition that Shammai teach him the whole law while
the gentile stood on one foot. Shammai, apparently doubting his
sincerity, chased him away with a measuring stick. Thereupon the man
came before Hillel, who said, “What is hateful to you, do not do to your
neighbor; that is the whole Torah, the rest is commentary” (TB
*Shabbath* 31a). *See* Golden Rule.

Another important decision rendered by Hillel was his issuance of the
so-called *prozbul* (Heb *p*<sup>*e*</sup>*rôzbôl* or
*p*<sup>*e*</sup>*rôsbôl* from either Gk *prós Boulē Bouleutōn*, “before
the assembly of the counselors,” or *prosbolḗ*, “delivery”; cf. JewEnc,
X, 219; HJP2, II, 366f, etc.), a judicial edict that in effect canceled
the OT ordinance that all debts should be remitted during the Sabbatical
Year (Dt. 15:1–11). Hillel’s intent was to prevent transgression on the
part of those who refused to give loans prior to the seventh year (cf.
Dt. 15:9).

According to later tradition Hillel demonstrated seven hermeneutical
rules (Heb *middôṯ*) when he was called before the council (Tosefta
*Sanhedrin* vii; *Aboth de Rabbi Nathan* xxxvii). The presence of
several of these interpretative principles in the NT has led scholars to
compare Hillel’s use of Scripture with that of Jesus and Paul. Hillel’s
first rule, *qal wāḥômer* (lit “light and heavy,” i.e., what applies in
a lesser case will certainly apply in a greater case), is exemplified in
Mt. 7:11 (par Lk. 11:13); Jn. 10:34–36; Rom. 5:15–21, which all have an
“if … then how much more” argument (cf. R. Longenecker, *Biblical
Exegesis in the Apostolic Period* [1975], pp. 32–38, 68, l17, etc.).
Paul’s use of other rules of Hillel led J. Jeremias to conclude that
Paul was a Hillelite (“Paulus als Hillelit,” in E. Ellis and M. Wilcox,
eds, *Neotestamentica et Semitica* [1969], p. 89).

Glatzer argued (“Hillel the Elder in the Light of the Dead Sea Scrolls,”
in K. Stendahl, ed, *The Scrolls and the NT* [1957], p. 244) that
Hillel’s teaching may show an awareness of the Qumrân sect’s break from
Jerusalem Judaism. Hillel’s purpose was thus one of reform within
Judaism (contra H. L. Strack, *Intro. to the Talmud and Midrash* [Engtr
1931; repr 1969], p. 108) to counter the influence of that group.

***Bibliography.***—W. Bacher, *Tradition und Tradenten in den Schulen
Palästinas und Babyloniens* (1914; repr 1966), pp. 54–71; F. Delitzsch,
*Jesus und Hillel* (3rd ed 1879); *Encylopaedia Judaica*, VIII, sv; N.
Glatzer, *Hillel the Elder: The Emergence of Classical Judaism* (1956);
J. Goldin, JR, 26 (1946), 263–277; A. Guttmann, *Rabbinic Judaism in the
Making* (1970), pp. 59–104; HUCA, 23 (1950/51), 453–473; 28 (1957),
115–126; A. Kaminka, JQR, 30 (1939/40), 107–122; G. F. Moore, *Judaism
in the First Centuries of the Christian Era*, I (1927; repr 1971),
72–81.

R. J. Way

