---
title: "Idolatry"
pdf: "idolatry.pdf"
description: "Idolatry -  an outline discussion of the various forms of idolatry prevalent in Old Testament and New Testament times. [MAR 2013]"
template: lesson.jade
---


<sup>Idolatry</sup>

**Idolatry**[Heb *t*<sup>*e*</sup>*rāp̱îm* (1 S. 15:23), *gillûlîm* (Ezk.
23:49), *z*<sup>*e*</sup>*nûṯ* (Ezk. 43:9); Gk *eidōlolatría* (Gal.
5:20; Col. 3:5; 1 Pet. 4:3); AV also IDOLS (Ezk. 23:49), “whoredom”
(Ezk. 43:9); NEB also “wanton disloyalty” (Ezk. 43:9), WORSHIP OF IDOLS
(1 Pet. 4:3). The Teraphim were apparently “household idols” (Gen.
31:19, 34f), although no text states that they were worshiped. In 1 S.
15:23 Heb *t*<sup>*e*</sup>*rāp̱îm* may be used as a general word for
idols (P. K. McCarter, *I Samuel* [AB, 1980], p. 268). Heb *gillûlîm* is
perhaps another general word for idols (cf. 2 K. 23:24, where both
*gillûlîm* and *t*<sup>*e*</sup>*rāp̱îm* occur), although its etymology
is uncertain; it may be related to Heb *gēl*, “dung,” and may have been
coined by Ezekiel (cf. TDOT, III, 2). Heb *z*<sup>*e*</sup>*nûṯ* is
derived from *zānâ*, “have illicit intercourse”; its sexual connotations
suggest the involvement of cultic prostitutes, who were a regular
feature of Canaanite pagan worship.

I. Ancient Near East
====================

Deities of the non-Hebrew religions of the ancient Near East were
commonly associated with animal forms. It is generally held today that
this theriomorphic representation of deity was either a concrete
expression of the attributes of the god (e.g., in UT 49:IV:34, *˒El*,
the chief god of the Canaanite pantheon, is called *ṯr* [Heb *šôr*],
“bull,” which connotes his power), or a localization of the spiritual
presence of the deity, similar to the presence of Yahweh over the
cherubim. Yet a stele from Râs Shamrah depicts *˒El* as a human figure
(ANEP, no 493), and the portrayal of the deities in the Ugaritic epic
material makes it highly unlikely that they were thought to have an
essential animal form. W. F. Albright observes that in the Canaanite,
Aramean, and Hittite cultures, a god was almost always depicted standing
on the back of an animal. He also observes, “The storm-god of
Mesopotamia is actually represented on seal-cylinders of the second
millennium b.c. as a schematic bolt of lightning set upright on the back
of a bull, and this iconographic device may go back to Sumerian seals
showing the bull who was the central figure in the ritual of
consecration of a sacred drum with the winged shrine of music (so
labelled!) on his back” (FSAC, p. 300).

This conception of the nature of idolatry seems to be consonant with the
cult of the golden calf, which manifested itself early in Israelite
history at Sinai (Ex. 32:1–6), and which resurfaced in the state cultus
of the northern kingdom of Israel (1 K. 12:25–30). The worship of the
golden calf was evidently a syncretistic form of Yahwism and not an
outright rejection of Yahweh. This is clear from the attribution of the
deliverance from Egypt to the image of the bull (Ex. 32:4), and from the
fact that the worship associated with the image was directed to Yahweh
(vv 5f). Evidently the image of the golden calf was understood as a
visual representation of the spiritual presence of Yahweh. The plural
verbs associated with the word “god” (*˒*<sup>*ĕ*</sup>*lōhîm*) need not
indicate a plurality of gods (only one image was constructed); they may
have been used by the writer to emphasize that the golden calf was not
the true god. The word *˒*<sup>*ĕ*</sup>*lōhîm* (“God, gods”) is plural,
but when used of God it is always construed with singular verbs. (For a
viewpoint opposing this concept of the golden calf see Bailey.)

This concretization of the presence and attributes of deity could easily
have degenerated in the popular religion to the point where the image
was regarded as the deity itself. It is likely that this occurred in
many ancient cultures. The use of the image of a bull was inherently
dangerous in the Israelite cultus because of the close associations of
that symbol with the pagan fertility cults.

*See* Religions of the Biblical World: Assyria and Babylonia, Canaanite,
Egypt.

II. Relation to Israel
======================

**A. Patriarchal Period**The nature of the patriarchal religion has been
the subject of much scholarly research. One of the most influential
contributions to this field of study is that of Albrecht Alt. In his
essay “The God of the Fathers” (in *Essays in OT History and Religion*
[Engtr 1966], pp. 1–100), Alt contends that much of the material in the
patriarchal narratives is secondary and only the most archaic strands
are trustworthy. On this supposition Alt concludes that the individual
patriarchs worshiped distinct numina which were identified with Yahweh
by later writers. Thus Yahwistic monotheism developed long after the
patriarchal times.

This view, as well as others of a similar nature, regards the
patriarchal traditions as an idealistic representation of what was in
reality a somewhat primitive religion, vestiges of which are observable
in the narratives. It is asserted by some that the patriarchal religion
involved the worship of deities other than Yahweh. Some scholars appeal
to Josh. 24:2 to support this assertion. This verse states nothing more,
however, than that Terah, Abraham’s father, worshiped other deities.
Abraham may have been involved with these deities before his call, but
there is no reason to assume that he was an idolator after his call by
Yahweh. It is difficult to understand why this verse would follow the
prohibition against worship of other gods in Josh. 23:16 if that were
its implication.

Rachel’s theft of the household gods (*t*<sup>*e*</sup>*rāp̱îm*) in Gen.
31:19, 25–35, has been illuminated by archeological finds at the site of
ancient Nuzi. While Rachel may still have had an affinity for the
religion of her youth, it is more probable that the household gods had a
legal or monetary value for her, rather than simply a religious one. The
Nuzi material indicates that one who possessed the household gods stood
to inherit the family estate; e.g., one tablet indicates, “Should Nashwi
beget a son, [the latter] shall divide equally with Wullu but [only]
Nashwi’s son shall take Nashwi’s gods …” (C. Gordon, pp. 24ff). If Laban
had natural sons during Jacob’s sojourn with him, the
*t*<sup>*e*</sup>*rāp̱îm* would have been rightfully theirs. Rachel
wished the advantage for Jacob her husband.

The pillar (*maṣṣēḇâ*) erected by Jacob (Gen. 28:18, 22; 35:14) need not
be regarded as a concrete representation of Yahweh, although such
pillars were certainly common to the Canaanite religion (Ex. 23:24;
34:13; Dt. 7:5; 12:3). The term *maṣṣēḇâ* is used in the OT of a
memorial (2 S. 18:18), a grave marker (Gen. 35:20), representations of
the Israelite tribes (Ex. 24:4), and the visible sign of an agreement
(Gen. 31:45, 51f).

The most common function of the *maṣṣēḇâ* was that of memorializing
individuals or solemn events. The pillar set up by Jacob seems to be
best understood as a memorial of the extraordinary encounter that Jacob
had with God at Bethel. The erection of the pillar would not only
distinguish the area where the divine encounter occurred, but also serve
as a token of the vow Jacob made to the Lord at that place (Gen. 31:13).

The command Jacob gave to his household to give up their foreign gods
(Gen. 35:2–4) does not indicate that idolatry was an essential part of
patriarchal religion. Rather, it demonstrates that Jacob recognized the
inconsistency of idolatry with his Yahwistic faith.

There seems to be no compelling reason for believing that the use of
representational forms of deity was an essential part of pre-Mosaic
religion among the Hebrews. Still less is there reason for positing a
primitive animism in ancient Hebrew religion because of the theophany
that occurred to Abraham at the oaks of Mamre (Gen. 18:1). The reference
to the oaks may be understood as a topographical reference similar to
other such references in the Pentateuch (Gen. 13:10; Ex. 15:27). Any
essential connection between the theophanic appearance and the oak trees
is purely conjectural.

**B. Mosaic Era**The Mosaic covenant expressly forbids the practice of
idolatry in its opening statements (Ex. 20:3–5 par Dt. 5:7–9). Not only
does the Decalogue prohibit the Israelites from having any gods that
would rival Yahweh (Ex. 20:3; Dt. 5:7), but it forbids the fashioning of
images as objects of worship. The words “you shall not bow down to them
or serve them” (Ex. 20:5; Dt. 5:9) make it clear that the command does
not preclude the pursuit of art, nor the use of certain representations
in worship, such as the cherubim on the ark of the covenant, but that
one is not to worship an image or venerate it by bowing before it. Thus
the Israelites were to make no symbolic representations of Yahweh in any
form (Dt. 4:15–18). This commandment made Israel’s faith unique among
the nations of the ancient world.

This prohibition of idol worship may not have encouraged advancement in
the visual arts, but it served to make the concept of God intensely
spiritual. Efforts to concretize the spiritual nature of God were made
in the realm of bold literary anthropomorphism. It may be that this
verbalizing of the divine attributes caused Israelite religion to find
its greatest expression in word rather than in artistic depiction.

The first major defection to idolatry on the part of the Israelites took
place in the Mosaic era in the worship of the golden calf (Ex. 32:1–6).
The representation of deity in the form of a bull calf may have had its
origin in the worship of the Egyptian god Apis, who was so depicted. As
mentioned above the bull was also a representation of the Canaanite god
’El. The institution of the bull cult in Israelite history was the first
expression of a religious syncretism that was never entirely suppressed.

**C. Historical Books**Several passages in the historical books indicate
that images continued to be made in Israel long after Moses’ time (Jgs.
3:19; 8:27; 17:3–6; 2 K. 21:7). These instances do not mean that
idolatry had a legitimacy in early Yahwism. The period of the judges was
one of blatant lawlessness, and much that cannot be considered normative
for Israelite faith and practice occurred then. Solomon’s lapse into
idolatry (1 K. 11:4–8) was clearly denounced (vv 9–13). The syncretistic
religion of Manasseh cited in 2 K. 21:7 is depicted by the historian as
contrary to the spirit of Israelite faith (vv 6–9). Even the bronze
serpent that Moses fashioned in the wilderness (Nu. 21:9) became an
object of worship (2 K. 18:4). In his reform Josiah removed both the
high place at Topheth (2 K. 23:10) and the “horses … dedicated to the
sun” that had been installed in the temple (v 11).

These accounts testify that the desire for a visual representation of
deity had not been completely expunged from the hearts of many
generations of Israelites. The tendency toward syncretism that
manifested itself during Moses’ absence at Sinai (Ex. 32:1) continued to
steal back into the Israelite cultus, creating a tension that ultimately
led to a rending of the social fabric of Israel.

The tension between idolatry and the essential spirit of Israelite
religion is reflected in the early prophetic protest of Samuel: “For
rebellion is as the sin of divination, and stubbornness is as iniquity
and idolatry” (1 S. 15:23). In this statement Samuel places disobedience
to God and idolatry in the same category. In the final analysis idolatry
was rebellion, for it constituted a violation of God’s commands.

The syncretistic expressions of religion that run like a thread through
the early history of Israel were ultimately given legitimacy by Jeroboam
I, king of the northern kingdom of Israel. The division of the nation
into the northern and southern kingdoms posed a serious theological
crisis for the northern kingdom. The geopolitical rift brought to the
fore the question of access to the cultic center at Jerusalem. Jeroboam
understood that if he was to bring stability to his fledgling kingdom,
he could allow nothing that would foster the loyalties to the Davidic
dynasty that were so deeply ingrained in the minds of the people (1 K.
12:26f). The temple had been built by Solomon the son of David, and
Jerusalem was rich with Davidic traditions. Clearly, a new form of
religious expression distinct from any association with David would have
to be instituted. This was done in a revival of the cult of the golden
calf (1 K. 12:28).

Once again the historian expresses displeasure with the use of concrete
forms of deity, for he says, “And this thing became a sin, for the
people went to the one at Bethel and to the other as far as Dan” (1 K.
12:30). The displeasure seems to be because the law of the central
sanctuary had been broken. The placement of sanctuaries in different
locations was dangerous because it could lead to the fractionalizing of
the concept of Yahweh in the minds of the people, similar to the
geographical localizations of the Canaanite god Baal.

The reference to *t*<sup>*e*</sup>*rāp̱îm* in 1 S. 19:13 (“image”) seems
best understood according to the suggestion of W. F. Albright as “old
rags.” He points out that no images “of comparable size have ever been
found in Palestinian excavations” (ARI, pp. 11Of, 206f n 63).

**D. Classical Prophets**The 8th cent b.c. witnessed a resurgence of
Israel and Judah. Economic prosperity, unparalleled in their history
except for the golden age of David and Solomon, fostered a growing class
of wealthy, influential people whose loyalty to the covenant
stipulations of Yahweh was at best questionable. The erosion of the
strong core of covenant obligation marked the 8th cent and led to the
dissolution of the nation. One of the most obvious violations of the
covenant standards was the popular religion of the day, a strange
syncretism of Yahwism and the symbols and mind-set of pagan idolatry.

The situation in the northern kingdom seems to have been particularly
dismal. Rites associated with the fertility cults of Canaan were
practiced at a number of shrines in Israel (Hos. 4:11–19; Mic. 1:7) and
may even have been widespread.

The internal sickness affected the southern kingdom of Judah as well,
although probably to a lesser degree. Isaiah presents a picture of
Judahite syncretism that is remarkably similar to that of Israel (2:8;
57:4–10).

The prophets engaged in a bitter polemic against idolatry. They observed
the incongruity of worshiping that which one fashions with one’s own
hands (Isa. 2:8; 44:12–20; Hab. 2:18), and pointed out that idols are
impotent and therefore a delusion to those who worship them (Isa. 42:17;
44:9; 45:20; Jer. 10:14f; 51:17f). Idols provoke Yahweh to anger (Jer.
8:19) and they are a form of spiritual fornication (Mic. 1:7). The
practice of idolatry will lead to Israel’s downfall (Isa. 2:8f). The
prophetic condemnation of idolatry had a more positive side, however.
God will abolish the images that vie with Him for supremacy (Isa. 2:18;
10:10f; 31:6f).

Isaiah’s denunciation of idols is the most theologically based of all
the prophets. He finds the source of the inclination for the worship of
idols in spiritual blindness (44:18) and self-delusion (44:20). Idolatry
is thus the external manifestation of a spiritually impoverished mind.

Isaiah points to the impossibility of likening anything on earth to God
(40:18–20) and thus roots his polemic against idolatry in the spiritual
nature of the deity. At the heart of Isaiah’s theological polemic is the
fact that God cannot be likened to anything that is finite or temporal
(cf. Dt. 4:15). Because God is pure spirit, any attempt to represent Him
in symbolic form is a distortion of His person and hence a falsification
of truth.

Isaiah also points his hearers to the attributes of Yahweh and then
contrasts Yahweh and His glorious attributes with the brooding idol of
stone or wood, incapable of thought, speech, or action. He speaks of the
Lord’s ability to declare future events, and denounces the idol as
“empty wind” (41:26, 29; 44:7). The idol cannot stand before the
inexorable progress of God’s will in history (41:5–7; cf. vv 8–16). The
Lord is the creator of the worlds, controlling the destinies of nations
(40:21–23); an idol cannot compare with Him (40:25).

The later prophets also denounced idolatry. Jeremiah foresaw judgment on
those who defiled the temple (7:30) and built high places (to Baal)
where child sacrifice was practiced (7:31; 19:5). Ezekiel also was faced
with idolatrous practices in the temple (8:3–18), where apparently the
sun and the Babylonian god Tammuz (Dumuzi) were being worshiped (vv 14,
16).

***Bibliography.***— ERE, VII (1915), sv “Images and Idols, Hebrew and
Canaanite” (A. Lods); C. Gordon, BA, 3 (1940), 1–12 (repr in D. N.
Freedman and E. F. Campbell, eds, *Biblical Archaeologist Reader,* 2
[1964], 21–33); ARI (5th ed 1968); H. H. Rowley, *Faith of Israel*
(1956); FSAC; Y. Kaufmann, *Religion of Israel* (Engtr 1961); W. F.
Albright, *Yahweh and the Gods of Canaan* (1965); L. R. Bailey, HUCA, 42
(1971), 97–115; F. M. Cross, *Canaanite Myth and Hebrew Epic* (1973);
TDOT, III, sv “gillûlîm” (Preuss).

T. E. Mccomiskey

III. Intertestamental Period
============================

What finally established the Jewish people in immovable opposition to
idolatry is told in the Apocrypha (1 Macc. 2:1–48) and in Josephus
(*Ant.* xii.5.4 [248–256]). The issue between Antiochus Epiphanes and
the Jewish people in the time of the early Maccabees was idolatry.
Antiochus demanded that as a pledge of political allegiance to his
sovereignty, Jews make a sacrifice at an altar dedicated to the Olympian
Zeus, perhaps before his statue (2 Macc. 6:2). Refusal resulted in
execution. The Hasmoneans, Mattathias and his sons, and their followers,
the Hasideans, defied the king’s decree. They raised a guerilla army and
fought a three-year civil war. With much heroism, they succeeded in
obtaining from the state freedom to follow their own religious
practices. Never again were Jews to take idolatry seriously. Rather,
idol worship became for them a matter of semi-humorous satire and
ridicule (cf. Bel and the Dragon).

IV. New Testament
=================

Idolatry was prevalent in the NT world. Idols were venerated in temples
dedicated to the traditional gentile gods, in popular magic and
superstition, as well as in the mystery religions and in emperor worship
(Mk. 12:16 par; Rev. 13:14f). The subject is scarcely mentioned in the
Gospels but receives attention in Paul’s letters due to the
circumstances of his mission (cf. Luke’s comment that Athens was a “city
full of idols,” Acts 17:16; AV “wholly given to idolatry”).

Reflecting his Jewish background, Paul stated plainly, “We [Christians]
know that an idol has no real existence” (1 Cor. 8:4). Idolatry is
“earthly” (Col. 3:5; Phil. 3:19). The idolaters are “immoral men,” with
whom Christians are not to associate (1 Cor. 5:10f), who will not
inherit the kingdom of God (1 Cor. 6:10; Gal. 5:21; Eph. 5:5). Cf.
“Little children, keep yourselves from idols,” 1 Jn. 5:21; “abstain from
the pollution of idols,” Acts 15:20. Rev. 21:8 states that idolaters are
doomed to be destroyed by fire; the new Jerusalem has no place for
idolaters who love and practice falsehood (Rev. 22:15).

In Rom. 1:18–32, Paul taught that sexual laxness and social disorder
among Gentiles were ultimately traceable to their idolatry, which he
described as exchanging “the glory of the immortal God for images.” The
wrath of God is against all such ungodliness and wickedness (v 18).
God’s decree is that idolaters deserve to die (v 32). At Ephesus Paul
was accused of successfully persuading a considerable company of people
“that gods made with hands are no gods” (Acts 19:26).

In their dealings with gentile converts from Greco-Roman religious
backgrounds, the early Christian evangelists encountered a new problem
related to idolatry — eating food, especially meat, that had been
offered to idols (Acts 15:29; 1 Cor. 8; Rev. 2:14, 20). Although to the
enlightened Christian such food had not been contaminated by idolatrous
rites, his eating it could possibly cause a weak brother to fall. To
preserve the solidarity of the Christian community, the well-informed
Christian was to choose voluntarily to avoid customary social
engagements where eating food offered to idols was involved (1 Cor.
8:1–13; 10:14–30).

Idolatry in the NT is also used figuratively. This was an interiorizing
extension of the commandment against idolatry (Ex. 20:3). Especially in
Paul’s letters, idolatry is used of a person’s commitment to any value
other than to Jesus Christ as Lord. In Rom. 1:18–32, it is evident that
the ultimate idolatry for Paul is putting love of self before honoring
and serving God (cf. “You cannot serve God and mammon,” Mk. 6:24). For
Paul, “the works of the flesh” — sexual immorality, impurity,
licentiousness, sorcery, enmity, strife, jealousy, anger, selfishness,
dissension, party spirit, and envy — were all, like idolatry, products
of putting self before God (Gal. 5:19–21). In Col. 3:5 is a similar list
of “what is earthly in you” — sexual immorality, impurity, passion, evil
desire — to which is added “covetousness,” which, Paul says, “is
idolatry.” What is suggested again is that at the root of sinful actions
is the idolizing of self, the pursuit, regardless of all else, of that
which seems to offer self-gratification. The opposite of idolatry is
self-giving, as in agape love (1 Cor. 13).

***Bibliography.***—R. M. Grant, *Early Christianity and Society*
(1977), ch 7; LAP (1959), pp. 459–501; M. C. Tenney, *NT Times* (1965),
ch 5; M. F. Unger, *Archaeology and the NT* (1962), chs 12–13.

P. L. Garber

