---
title: Isaac
template: lesson.jade
---


<sup>Isaac</sup>

**Isaac**īʹzək [Heb *yiṣḥāq, yiśhāq*—either ‘laughing,’ ‘he laughs,’ or
‘he laughed’; Gk *Isaak*]. An OT patriarch, son of Abraham and father of
Jacob and Esau.

I. Significance of the Name
===========================

Whether *yiṣḥāq* is to be taken as an imperfect or as a past tense, it
is necessary to consider the subject of the verb. The most common
solution is to supply *˒ēl*, “God,” as the subject. It might then be
understood as indicating divine benevolence, or else the fearful
laughter of God’s scorn for His enemies (Ps. 2:4). A strong objection to
this analysis is that the name is never so written in the text
preserved; cf. Albright (FSAC, p. 245), who translates Heb *yiṣḥāq–˒ēl*
“May *˒*El smile favorably upon me in my distress.” The narratives
concerning the promise and the birth of Isaac suggest that some person
may be the subject: his father (Gen. 17:17); his mother (Gen. 18:12–15;
separation from the specific subject might result in the name taking the
simple masculine form *yiṣḥāq* and not the feminine *tiṣḥāq*); or
“everyone who hears” (Gen. 21:6). Other occurrences of the root in the
Isaac stories cannot be connected with his naming since they followed
that event (Gen. 21:9; 26:8). The name may well be understood as
indefinite, “one laughs,” or, since Abraham named his son, it may refer
back to his own incredulous laughter, “he laughed.”

II. Family
==========

The two events of Isaac’s life that Genesis treats in detail emphasize
his significance as the heir of the covenant first made with his father
and as the one whose son was to become the nation Israel.

**A. Birth and Position**The birth of Isaac was peculiar in several
respects: the age of his parents, the purity of his lineage, the special
divine promises. In the birth of Isaac (when his mother was ninety and
his father one hundred years old [Gen. 17:17]) may be seen the
faithfulness of Yahweh, who had promised an heir twenty-five years
before (Gen. 12:1–4). His mother was not only Abraham’s wife but also
his half sister, so Isaac was a member of the family of Terah on both
sides. As son of Sarah, Isaac had legal precedence over Ishmael; but
Hagar’s son could be excluded from inheriting along with Isaac only by
the explicit command to expel him from the family (Gen. 21:11–14).

**B. Relation to the Religious Birthright**The removal of Ishmael and of
Abraham’s other sons (Gen. 25:1–6) avoided a division of Abraham’s
material wealth at his death and ensured that Isaac alone would inherit
the blessings associated with the Promised Land. It also avoided the
possibility of disagreement and difficulties arising from subjection to
Isaac. Some sense of the importance of the spiritual inheritance is
evident in Isaac’s relationship to his sons. Although he favored the
elder, he could not withdraw the blessing he had bestowed upon the
younger son, but rather recognized that this was in accordance with the
divine plan and confirmed it (Gen. 28:3f).

III. Biography
==============

Prior to his marriage, Isaac’s life is a part of the story of Abraham;
after his marriage it merges into that of his children, emphasizing his
role as an intermediary.

As he was the first child of God’s promise, Isaac was the first to
receive the sign of circumcision at the prescribed age of eight days;
and his survival to the end of weaning (perhaps at the age of two) was
marked by a great feast. These indications of the important position he
held underline the enormous sacrifice later demanded of Abraham. Isaac
was probably fully grown at the time and evidently familiar with the act
of sacrifice (Gen. 22:7). The divine interposition to save the one who
was thus devoted to God constituted him afresh the heir of the promise,
confirmed by its renewal on that occasion.

The account of the central event of Isaac’s life is prefaced by the
genealogies of Abraham’s brother in Haran (Gen. 22:20–24) and the death
of Sarah, an event that caused Abraham, an old man, to think of his duty
to obtain a wife for his son (Gen. 24:3, 67). The wife could be found
only among the cousins at Haran if the purity of descent was to be
maintained and the family distinguished from surrounding clans. Eliezer
was sent there and found Rebekah, whose hand he sought in the approved
way (*see* Marriage IV.B.2). The match was accomplished under divine
guidance. The first meeting of Isaac and Rebekah is described at the
close of Gen. 24 with the tender interest natural to blood descendants.

If the phrase “these are the generations of” is taken as marking the end
of a section of Genesis, the history of Isaac finishes at Gen. 25:19
(see P. J. Wiseman, *New Discoveries in Babylonia about Genesis* [1936],
pp. 54f). The next paragraphs describe the birth of the twin sons Esau
and Jacob, and continue into their stories. Like Abraham, Isaac learned
of the faithfulness of God in this matter, for it was not until twenty
years after his marriage that his sons were born.

Life in Palestine followed an unchanging pattern for several
generations, so that similarity of the events in the life of one person
with events in the life of another need not be explained as duplication
of tradition. When there was famine in the land the natural reaction of
inhabitants of the south was to look to Egypt for food. Abraham and
Joseph’s brothers went there for corn, and Isaac intended to do so (Gen.
26:2). At this time of distress the covenant promises were reiterated
and confirmed to Isaac. Although he was prevented from going to Egypt,
he copied his father in telling the men of Gerar that Rebekah was his
sister. Although ancient customs (*see* Marriage II.B.2) may make this
move understandable and Heb *˒āḥôṯ* may have had a wider connotation
than “sister,” Isaac clearly intended to deceive. His status, wealth,
and the size of his household served to protect him from attack by the
local peoples, especially in disputes over watering rights (Gen. 26).

The favoritism Isaac showed for Esau and Rebekah showed for Jacob
culminated in the deceit by which the younger son received the elder’s
share and led to his flight to the relatives at Haran. Esau also left
his father and settled in Transjordan. About twenty years later Jacob
returned with his family and soon thereafter Isaac died. Just as his
sons Isaac and Ishmael together buried Abraham, so also Esau and Jacob
together laid their father in the family tomb at Hebron (Gen. 35:27–29).

IV. Biblical References
=======================

Although Isaac is often mentioned in the formula “Abraham, Isaac, and
Jacob [or Israel]” (so 23 times in the OT, 7 times in the NT), he is
otherwise far less prominent than either his father or his son. Jacob
calls Yahweh the “Fear” of Isaac (Gen. 31:42), perhaps simply referring
to the God whom Isaac reverenced; possibly it is a name of deeper,
unexplained significance. Isaac is called the “gift” of God to Abraham,
just as Esau and Jacob are called God’s “gifts” to Isaac (Josh. 24:3f;
cf. Koran 6:84). Amos uses Isaac in poetic parallel with Israel (Am.
7:9, 16, but the LXX reads Jacob in v 16).

In the NT are noted Isaac’s importance as the first to be circumcised on
the eighth day (Acts 7:8), his position as first of the elect seed (Rom.
9:7), and his begetting two sons so dissimilar in their relation to the
promise as were Esau and Jacob (Rom. 9:13). That Isaac was heir to the
promise, a child of old age, and the father of an innumerable progeny
are emphasized in He. 11:9–12, where the deeper significance of the
sacrifice in Moriah is also discovered (He. 11:17–19; cf. Jas. 2:21); in
the same context is noted the faith in God implicit in Isaac’s blessing
of his sons. Paul uses Isaac and his mother as allegorical
representations of Christians, who are justified by faith in the promise
of God and who are freeborn heirs of all its spiritual inheritance (Gal.
4:21–31).

V. Views Other Than Historical
==============================

Philo, the chief allegorizer of the scriptural narratives among ancient
authors, has little to say of Isaac, whom he calls “the self-instructed
nature.” More recent critics have taken the view that together with Edom
he is a personification of an ethnic group (J. Wellhausen, *Prolegomenon
to the History of Israel* [repr 1959], p. 316) or that Isaac was a deity
at Beersheba, with the suggestion also that the name of a god might be
applied to the intended victim of sacrifice (cf. E. Meyer, *Israeliten
and ihre Nachbarstämme* [1906], p. 255). H. Gunkel (*Schriften des AT*
[1910], p. 41) allows that the patriarchs were actual persons, but have
survived only as names around which cycles of folk stories have
crystallized. The position of M. Noth is somewhat similar; he sees Isaac
and Abraham as names that were associated with the religion of the
southern tribes in Palestine and around which various traditions
collected (NHI, pp. 122f). Increasing knowledge of the history of the
early centuries of the 2nd millennium b.c. has resulted in the
recognition of factual material in the narratives by many historians. J.
Bright concludes that, when account is taken of the oral transmission
through which they are assumed to have passed, “although the essential
historicity of the traditions cannot be impeached, detailed
reconstructions are impossible” (BHI, p. 68).

*From the International Standard Bible Encyclopedia*A. R. Millard

