---
title: "Isaiah"
pdf: "isaiah.pdf"
description: "Of all the prophets of Israel, Isaiah stands out as incomparably the greatest."
template: lesson.jade
---


<sup>Isaiah</sup>

**Isaiah**ī-zāʹə

Of all the prophets of Israel, Isaiah stands out as incomparably the
greatest. Writing with majestic grandeur, this gifted eighth-century
b.c. author exalts the grace of God in salvation. For this, if for no
other reason, he has well been called “the evangelical prophet.”

I. Name
=======

The Heb *y*<sup>*e*</sup>*ša˓yāhû* was the form current in the 8th cent
b.c., the shorter variant *y*<sup>*e*</sup>*ša˓yâ* becoming more popular
subsequently, and occurring in the fifth-century-b.c. Elephantine
papyri. Greek and Latin equivalents were *Ēsaias* and *Isaiae*
respectively. Thus the AV uses “Esay” in 2 Esd. 2:18; Sir. 48:22, and
“Esaias” in the NT (Mt. 3:3; 4:14; etc.). The name means “Yahweh is
salvation,” and is thus similar to names such as Joshua, Elisha, and
Jesus.

II. Personal History
====================

Little is known about the man himself. He is said to have been the son
of Amoz (not the contemporary prophet Amos), and he exercised his
ministry in and around Jerusalem. Inasmuch as he had ready access to
kings (cf. 7:3), it has been thought that he was of royal descent. By
tradition he was the cousin of King Uzziah (791/90–740/39 b.c.). Whether
this was actually the case or not, it must be remembered that it was the
custom in ancient times for prophets to move freely in court circles and
to associate with monarchs, sometimes on a friendly basis (cf. 1 K.
19:15f) and sometimes not (cf. 2 Ch. 18:4–27). In the same way some
prophets exhibited a decided interest in temple worship and its
implications for national destiny, and thus it would not have been
unusual for Isaiah to have had the kind of contact with the Jerusalem
temple implied in the vision that resulted in his call, or the personal
friendship with a priest that 8:2 seems to indicate.

As appears from 8:3 he was married, and designated his wife “the
prophetess,” perhaps because she also prophesied. He had two sons, who
each bore a symbolic name. One of these, Shear-jashub (“a remnant shall
return”), held out the promise that a faithful minority would survive
the collapse of national life (7:3), while the other,
Maher-shalal-hash-baz (“hasten booty, speed spoil”), symbolized
Assyria’s mad desire for conquest (8:3). Like Elijah before him, Isaiah
normally would have been clad in a garment of sackcloth, and would have
worn sandals. This customary prophetic garb was discarded for three
years, however, when in obedience to God’s command and as a means of
reinforcing his statements about the pointlessness of Judah’s reliance
on Egypt against Assyria, Isaiah walked about Jerusalem wearing only a
loincloth (Isa. 20:2–6). No doubt his behavior must have appeared
somewhat bizarre in the eyes of his fellow Judeans, and may have led
some of them to describe him in terms of the “mad fellow” epithet used
in 2 K. 9:11 of the young prophet sent to anoint Jehu. Precisely how
long Isaiah functioned as prophet, evangelist, and adviser to the royal
court is unknown. His last appearance that can be dated with reasonable
certainty was at the time of Sennacherib’s campaign in 701 b.c. If there
was factual evidence to show that Sennacherib had launched a second
attack against Jerusalem, this date could be lowered to ca 688 b.c.
There is no a priori reason why Isaiah should not have survived into
Manasseh’s reign, since the absence of that king’s name from the
superscription of the prophecy (1:1) need only mean that Isaiah played a
modest public role at the end of his life. The date of his death,
however, must remain entirely conjectural.

III. Call
=========

From the superscription it is legitimate to conclude that Isaiah’s
ministry must have involved at least a portion of the reign of Uzziah,
perhaps during the time of his leprosy when Jotham acted as co-regent
and subsequently as king (2 K. 15:5), since he received visions at that
time. Such an indication that Isaiah was already active as a prophet
challenges the popular view that he received his call in connection with
the events mentioned in ch 6. Instead, it would seem to indicate that
Isaiah experienced on that occasion a reconsecration or rededication to
his prophetic task, which was in effect to warn his contemporaries of
impending disaster and divine judgment (6:9–13), and at the same time to
promise that redemption would be the lot of a repentant remnant (6:13).
(Or ch 6 may describe a calling to speak to the people, whereas formerly
he had spoken to the king.) Isaiah in his vision found himself in the
temple, where he received the symbolical assurance of the forgiveness of
his sins and a commission to preach to his own people for the Lord. His
remarkable readiness to serve in this capacity appeared in his eager
response to the commission, which proved to be one whose discharge
resulted in the hardening of the will of the nation to which he had been
sent. The entire ministry of Isaiah was one of faithful fulfillment of
his responsibilities as a prophet of God. His horizons, both political
and spiritual, were virtually unbounded, and he was in every sense of
the term the universal prophet of Israel.

IV. Literary Genius and Style
=============================

For versatility of expression and brilliance of imagery Isaiah had no
superior, not even a rival. His style marks the climax of Hebrew
literary art. Epigrams and metaphors, particularly of flood, storm, and
sound (1:13; 5:18, 22; 8:8; 10:22; 28:17, 20; 30:28, 30), interrogation
and dialogue (6:8; 10:8f), antithesis and alliteration (1:18; 3:24;
17:10, 12), hyperbole and parable (2:7; 5:1–7; 28:23–29), even
paronomasia, or play upon words (5:7; 7:9), characterize Isaiah’s book
as the great masterpiece of Hebrew literature. He is also famous for his
richness of vocabulary and synonyms. For example, Ezekiel uses 1535
words; Jeremiah, 1653; the psalmists 2170; while Isaiah uses 2186.
Isaiah was also an orator: Jerome likened him to Demosthenes; and a
poet: he frequently elaborates his messages in rhythmic or poetic style
(12:1–6; 25:1–5; 26:1–12; 38:10–20; 42:1–4; 49:1–9; 50:4–9; 52:13–53:12;
60–62; 66:5–24); and in several instances slips into elegiac rhythm,
e.g., in 37:22–29 there is a fine taunting poem on Sennacherib, and in
14:4–23 another on the king of Babylon.

V. Traditions Concerning His Martyrdom
======================================

Nothing definite or historical is known concerning the prophet’s end.
Toward the close of the 2nd cent a.d., however, there was a tradition to
the effect that he suffered martyrdom in the heathen reaction that
occurred under King Manasseh, because of certain speeches concerning God
and the Holy City that his contemporaries alleged were contrary to the
law. Indeed the Mishnah explicitly states that Manasseh slew him. Justin
Martyr also (a.d. 150), in his controversial dialogue with the Jew
Trypho, reproaches the Jews with this accusation, “whom ye sawed asunder
with a wooden saw”; this tradition is further confirmed by a Jewish
apocalypse of the 2nd cent a.d., Ascension of Isaiah, and mentioned by
Epiphanius in the 4th century. It is barely possible that there is an
allusion to his martyrdom in He. 11:37, which reads, “They were stoned,
they were sawn in two,” but this is by no means certain. In any case
Isaiah probably survived the great catastrophe of the siege of Jerusalem
by Sennacherib in 701 b.c., and possibly also the death of Hezekiah in
699 b.c., for in 2 Ch. 32:32 it is stated that Isaiah wrote a biography
of King Hezekiah. If so, his prophetic activity extended over a period
of more than forty years, ending presumably in the early part of
Manasseh’s reign (687/6–642/1 b.c.), and certainly during the period of
his co-regency (696/5–687/6 b.c.).

VI. Historical Background
=========================

According to the title of his book (1:1f), Isaiah prophesied during the
reigns of Uzziah, Jotham, Ahaz, and Hezekiah, kings of Judah. He dates
his inaugural vision (6:1) in the year of Uzziah’s death, which was
approximately 740 b.c. This marks, therefore, the beginning of his
prophetic ministry. And we know that he was still active as late as the
siege of Jerusalem by Sennacherib in 701 b.c. Hence the minimum period
of his activity as a prophet was from 740 to 701 b.c. As a young man
Isaiah witnessed the rapid development of Judah into a strong commercial
and military state; for under Uzziah Judah attained a degree of
prosperity and strength not enjoyed since the days of Solomon. Walls,
towers, fortifications, a large standing army, a port for commerce on
the Red Sea, increased inland trade, tribute from the Ammonites, success
in war with the Philistines and the Arabians — all these became Judah’s
during Uzziah’s long and prosperous reign of approximately fifty-two
years, this period of time including his co-regency from 791/90 b.c.
with his father Amaziah (796–767 b.c.). But along with power and wealth
came also avarice, oppression, religious formality, and corruption. The
temple revenues indeed were greatly increased, but religion and life
were too frequently dissociated; the nation’s progress was altogether
material. During the reign of Jotham (740/39–732/1 b.c.), who for
several years was probably associated with his father as co-regent, a
new power began to appear over the eastern horizon. The Assyrians, with
whom Ahab had come in contact at the Battle of Qarqar in 853 b.c., and
to whom Jehu had paid tribute in 841 b.c., began to manifest anew their
characteristic lust of conquest. Tiglathpileser III (called “Pul” in 2
K. 15:19), who reigned over Assyria from 745 to 727 b.c., turned his
attention westward, and ca 740 b.c. reduced Arpad, Calno, Carchemish,
Hamath, and Damascus, causing them to pay tribute. His presence in the
West led Pekah king of Israel and Rezin king of Damascus to form an
alliance in order to resist further encroachment on the part of Assyria.
When Ahaz refused to join their confederacy they resolved to dethrone
him and set in his stead the son of Tabeel upon the throne of David (2
K. 16:5; Isa. 7:6). The struggle that ensued is commonly known as the
Syro-Ephraimitic war (734 b.c.) — one of the great events in Isaiah’s
period. Ahaz in panic sent to Tiglath-pileser for help (2 K. 16:7), who
of course responded with alacrity. The result was that the great
Assyrian warrior sacked Gaza, carried all of Galilee and Gilead into
captivity (734), and finally took Damascus (732 b.c.). Ahaz was forced
to pay dearly for his protection and Judah was brought very low (2 K.
15:29; 16:7–9; 2 Ch. 28:19; Isa. 7:1). The religious as well as the
political effect of Ahaz’ policy was decidedly baneful. To please
Tiglath-pileser, Ahaz went to Damascus to join in the celebration of his
victories, and while there saw a Syrian altar, a pattern of which he
sent to Jerusalem and had a copy set up in the temple in place of the
brazen altar of Solomon. Thus Ahaz, with all the influence of a king,
sponsored idolatry in Jerusalem, even causing his sons to pass through
the fire (2 K. 16:10–16; 2 Ch. 28:3).

Hezekiah succeeded Ahaz, beginning to rule at the age of twenty-five as
co-regent (729 b.c.) and reigning until his death in 687/6 b.c. Isaiah
was at least fifteen years his senior. The young king inherited from his
father a heavy burden. The splendor of the reigns of Uzziah and Jotham
was rapidly fading before the ever menacing and avaricious Assyrians.
Hezekiah began his reign with many reforms. “He removed the high places,
and broke the pillars, and cut down the Asherah” (2 K. 18:4, 22). He
even invited the surviving remnant of Israel to join in celebrating the
Passover (2 Ch. 30:1). But Israel’s end was drawing near. Hoshea, the
vacillating puppet-king of Israel (732/1–723/2 b.c.), encouraged by
Egypt, refused to continue to pay Assyria his annual tribute (2 K.
17:4); whereupon Shalmaneser IV, who had succeeded Tiglath-pileser,
promptly appeared before the gates of Samaria in 724 b.c., and for
nearly three years besieged the city (2 K. 17:5). Finally, the city was
captured by Sargon II (or by Shalmaneser, but claimed by Sargon), who
succeeded Shalmaneser IV in 722 b.c., 27,292 of Israel’s choicest people
(according to Sargon’s own description) were deported to Assyria, and
colonists were brought from Babylon and other adjacent districts and
placed in the cities of Samaria (2 K. 17:6, 24). Thus the kingdom of
Israel passed into oblivion, and Judah was left exposed to the direct
ravages, political and religious, of her Assyro-Babylonian neighbors. In
fact Judah itself barely escaped destruction by promising heavy tribute.
This was the second great political crisis during Isaiah’s ministry.

Other crises were soon to follow. One was the desperate illness of King
Hezekiah, who faced certain death ca 714 b.c., though the chronology
presents some difficulties. Being childless, he was seriously concerned
for the future of the Davidic dynasty. He resorted to prayer, however,
and God graciously extended his life fifteen years (2 K. 20; Isa. 38).
His illness occurred during the period of Babylon’s independence under
Merodach-baladan, the ever ambitious, irresistible, and uncompromising
enemy of Assyria, who for twelve years (722–710 b.c.) maintained
independent supremacy over Babylon. Taking advantage of Hezekiah’s
wonderful cure, Merodach seized the opportunity, sending an embassy to
Jerusalem to congratulate him on his recovery (712 b.c.), and at the
same time probably sought to form an alliance with Judah to resist
Assyrian supremacy (2 K. 20:12–15; Isa. 39). Nothing, however, came of
the alliance, for the following year Sargon’s army reappeared in
Philistia in order to discipline Ashdod for conspiracy with the king of
Egypt (711 b.c.).

The greatest crisis was yet to come. Its story is as follows: Judah and
her neighbors groaned more and more under the heavy exactions of
Assyria. Accordingly, when Sargon was assassinated and Sennacherib came
to the throne in 705 b.c., rebellion broke out on all sides.
Merodach-baladan, who had been expelled by Sargon in 709 b.c., again
took Babylon and held it for at least six months in 703 b.c. Hezekiah,
who was encouraged by Egypt and all Philistia, except Padi of Ekron, the
puppet-king of Sargon, refused to continue to pay Assyria tribute (2 K.
18:7). Meanwhile a strong pro-Egypt party had sprung up in Jerusalem. In
view of all these circumstances, Sennacherib in 701 b.c. marched
westward with a vast army, sweeping everything before him. Tyre was
invested though not taken; on the other hand, Joppa, Eltekeh, Ekron,
Ashkelon, Ammon, Moab, and Edom all promptly yielded to his demands.
Hezekiah was panic stricken and hastened to bring rich tribute,
stripping even the temple and the palace of their treasures to do so (2
K. 18:13–16). But Sennacherib was not satisfied. He overran Judah,
capturing, as he tells us in his inscription, forty-six walled towns and
smaller villages without number, carrying 200,150 of Judah’s population
into captivity to Assyria, and demanding as tribute eight hundred
talents of silver and thirty talents of gold (a talent equaled about 30
kilograms, or 65 pounds); he took also, he claims, Hezekiah’s daughters
and palace women, seized his male and female singers, and carried away
enormous spoil.

But the end was not yet. Sennacherib himself, with the bulk of the army,
halted in Philistia to reduce Lachish; thence he sent a strong
detachment under his commander-in-chief, the Rabshakeh, to besiege
Jerusalem (2 K. 18:17–19:8; Isa. 36:2–37:8). He describes this blockade
in his own inscription: “I shut up Hezekiah in Jerusalem like a bird in
a cage.” The Rabshakeh, however, failed to capture the city and returned
to Sennacherib, who meanwhile had completely conquered Lachish, and was
now warring against Libnah. A second expedition against Jerusalem was
planned, but hearing that Tirhakah (at that time the commander-in-chief
of Egypt’s forces and only afterward “king of Ethiopia”) was
approaching, Sennacherib was forced to content himself with sending
messengers with a letter to Hezekiah, demanding immediate surrender of
the city (2 K. 19:9ff; Isa. 37:9ff). Hezekiah, however, through Isaiah’s
influence held out; and in due time, though Sennacherib disposed of
Tirhakah’s army without difficulty, his immense host in some mysterious
way — by plague or otherwise — was suddenly smitten, and the great
Assyrian conqueror was forced to return to Nineveh, possibly because
Merodach-baladan had again appeared in Babylonia. Sennacherib never
again returned to Palestine, so far as we know, during the subsequent
twenty years of his reign, though he did make an independent expedition
into north Arabia (691–689 b.c.). This invasion of Judah by Sennacherib
in 701 b.c. was the great political event in Isaiah’s ministry. Had it
not been for the prophet’s statesmanship, Jerusalem might have
capitulated. Isaiah had at this time been preaching forty years. How
much longer he labored is not known.

VII. Analysis and Contents
==========================

There are six general divisions of the book: (1) chs 1–12, prophecies
concerning Judah and Jerusalem, closing with promises of restoration and
a psalm of thanksgiving; (2) chs 13–23, oracles of judgment and
salvation, for the most part concerning those foreign nations whose
fortunes affected Judah and Jerusalem; (3) chs 24–27, the Lord’s
world-judgment in the redemption of Israel; (4) chs 28–35, a cycle of
prophetic warnings against alliance with Egypt, closing with a prophecy
concerning Edom and a promise of Israel’s ransom; (5) chs 36–39,
history, prophecy, and song intermingled, serving both as an appendix to
chs 1–35 and as an introduction to chs 40–66; (6) chs 40–66, prophecies
of comfort and salvation, and also of the future glory awaiting Israel.

By examining in detail these several divisions we can trace better the
prophet’s thought. Thus, chs 1–12 reveal Judah’s social sins (chs 1–6)
and its political entanglements (chs 7–12); ch 1 is an introduction, in
which the prophet strikes the chief notes of his entire book:
thoughtlessness (vv 2–9), formalism in worship (vv 10–17), pardon (vv
18–23), and judgment (vv 24–31). Chapters 2–4 contain three distinct
pictures of Zion: (a) its exaltation (2:2–4), (b) its present idolatry
(2:5–4:1), and (c) its eventual purification (4:2–6). Chapter 5 contains
an arraignment of Judah and Jerusalem, composed of three parts: (a) a
parable of the Lord’s vineyard (vv 1–7); (b) a series of six woes
pronounced against insatiable greed (vv 8–10), dissipation (vv 11–17),
daring defiance against the Lord (vv 18f), confusion of moral
distinctions (v 20), political self-conceit (v 21), and misdirected
heroism (vv 22f); and (c) an announcement of imminent judgment. The
Assyrian is on the way and there will be no escape (vv 24–30). Chapter 6
recounts the prophet’s inaugural vision and commission. It is really an
apologetic, standing as it does after the prophet’s denunciations of his
contemporaries. When they tacitly object to his message of threatening
and disaster, he is able to reply that, having pronounced “woe” upon
himself in the year that King Uzziah died, he had the authority to
pronounce woe upon them (6:5). Plainly Isaiah tells them that Judah’s
sins are hopeless. They are becoming spiritually insensible. They have
eyes but they cannot see. Only judgment can avail: “the righteous
judgment of a forgotten God” awaits them. A “holy seed,” however, still
existed in Israel’s stock (6:13).

In chs 7–12, Isaiah appears in the role of a practical statesman. He
warns Ahaz against political entanglements with Assyria. The section
7:1–9:7 (MT 6) is a prophecy of Immanuel, history and prediction being
intermingled. It describes the Syro-Ephraimitic uprising ca 734 b.c.
when Pekah of Israel and Rezin of Damascus, in attempting to defend
themselves against the Assyrians, demanded that Ahaz of Jerusalem should
become their ally. But Ahaz preferred the friendship of Assyria, and
refused to enter into alliance with them. In order to defend himself, he
applied to Assyria for assistance, sending ambassadors with many
precious treasures, both royal and sacred, to bribe Tiglath-pileser. It
was at this juncture that Isaiah, at the Lord’s bidding, expostulated
with Ahaz concerning the fatal step he was about to take, and as a
practical statesman warned Ahaz, “the king of No-Faith,” that the only
path of safety lay in loyalty to the Lord and avoidance of foreign
alliances; that “God is with us” for salvation; and that no “conspiracy”
could possibly be successful unless God too was against them. When,
however, the prophet’s message of promise and salvation found no
welcome, he committed it to his disciples, bound up and sealed for
future use, assuring his hearers that to them a child was born and a son
was given, in whose day the empire of David would be established upon a
basis of justice and righteousness. The messianic scion was the ground
of the prophet’s hope. This hope, though unprecedented, he thus early in
his ministry committed, written and sealed, to his inner circle of
“disciples.” *See* Immanuel.

The section 9:8 (MT 7)–10:4 contains an announcement to Israel of
accumulated wrath and impending ruin, with a refrain (9:12, 17, 21 [MT
11,16, 20]; 10:4). Here, in an artistic poem composed of four strophes,
the prophet describes the great calamities that the Lord has sent down
upon Israel but that have gone unheeded: foreign invasion (9:8–12),
defeat in battle (9:13–17), anarchy (9:18–21), and impending captivity
(10:1–4). Yet the Lord’s judgments have been ignored: “For all this his
anger is not turned away, and his hand is stretched out still.” Divine
discipline has failed; only judgment remains.

In 10:5–34, Assyria is declared to be an instrument of the Lord, the rod
of the Lord’s anger. Chapters 11–12 predict Israel’s return from exile,
including a vision of the Messiah’s reign of ideal peace. For Isaiah’s
vision of the nation’s future reached far beyond mere exile. To him the
downfall of Assyria was the signal for the commencement of a new era in
Israel’s history. Assyria has no future, its downfall is fatal; Judah
has a future, its calamities are only disciplinary. An ideal Prince will
be raised up in whose advent all nature will rejoice, even dumb animals
(11:1–10). A second great exodus will take place, for the Lord will set
His hand again “a second time” to recover the remnant of His people
“from the four corners of the earth” (11:11f). In that day, “Ephraim
shall not be jealous of Judah, and Judah shall not harass Ephraim”
(11:13). On the contrary, the reunited nation, redeemed and occupying
their rightful territory (11:14–16), shall sing a hymn of thanksgiving,
proclaiming the salvation of the Lord to all the earth (ch 12).

Chapters 13–23 contain oracles of judgment and salvation, for the most
part concerning those foreign nations whose fortunes affected Judah and
Jerusalem. They are grouped together by the editor, as similar foreign
oracles are in Jer. 46–51 and Ezk. 25–32. Isaiah’s horizon was
worldwide. First among the foreign prophecies stands the oracle
concerning Babylon (13:1–14:23), in which he predicts the utter
destruction of the city (13:2–22), and sings a dirge or taunt-song over
its fallen king (14:4–23). The king alluded to is almost beyond doubt an
Assyrian (not a Babylonian) monarch of the 8th cent; the brief prophecy
immediately following in 14:24–27 concerning Assyria tacitly confirms
this interpretation. Another brief oracle concerning Babylon (21:1–10)
describes the city’s fall as imminent. Both oracles stand or fall
together as genuine prophecies of Isaiah. Both seem to have been written
in Jerusalem (13:2; 21:9, 10). It cannot be said that either is
unrelated in thought and language to Isaiah’s age (14:13; 21:2); each
foretells the doom to fall on Babylon (13:19; 21:9) at the hands of the
Medes (13:17; 21:2); and each describes the Israelites as already in
exile — but not necessarily *all* Israel.

The section 14:24–27 tells of the certain destruction of the Assyrian.

The passage 14:28–32 is an oracle concerning Philistia.

Chapters 15–16 are ancient oracles against Moab, whose dirgelike meter
resembles that of chs 13–14. These oracles consist of two separate
prophecies belonging to two different periods in Isaiah’s ministry
(16:13f). The three points of particular interest in the oracles are:
(1) the prophet’s tender sympathy for Moab in her affliction (15:5;
16:11). As Delitzsch says, “There is no prophecy in the book of Isaiah
in which the heart of the prophet is so painfully affected by what his
mind sees, and his mouth is obliged to prophesy.” (2) Moab’s pathetic
appeal for shelter from her foes; particularly the ground on which she
urges it, namely, the messianic hope that the Davidic dynasty shall
always stand and be able to repulse its foes (16:5). The prophecy is an
echo of 9:5–7. (3) The promise that a remnant of Moab, though small,
shall be saved (16:14). The prophet predicts that Moab, wearied of
prayer to Chemosh in the high places, will seek the living God (v 12).

The passage 17:1–11 is an oracle concerning Damascus and Israel, in
which Isaiah predicts the fate of the two allies — Syria and Ephraim —
in the Syro-Ephraimitic war of 734 b.c., with a promise that only a
scanty remnant will survive (17:6). In 17:12–14, the prophet boldly
announces the complete annihilation of Judah’s unnamed foes — the
Assyrians.

Chapter 18 describes Ethiopia as in great excitement, sending
ambassadors here and there — possibly all the way to Jerusalem —
ostensibly seeking aid in making preparations for war. Assyria had
already taken Damascus (732 b.c.) and Samaria (722 b.c.), and
consequently Egypt and Ethiopia were in fear of invasion. Isaiah bids
the ambassadors to return home and quietly watch the Lord thwart
Assyria’s confident attempt to subjugate Judah; and he adds that when
the Ethiopians have seen God’s hand in the coming deliverance of Judah
and Jerusalem (701 b.c.), they will bring a present to the Lord to His
abode in Mt. Zion.

Chapter 19, which is an oracle concerning Egypt, contains both a threat
(vv 1–17) and a promise (vv 18–25), and is one of Isaiah’s most
remarkable foreign messages. Egypt is smitten and thereby led to abandon
its idols for the worship of the Lord (vv 19–22). Still more remarkable,
it is prophesied that in that day Egypt and Assyria will join with Judah
in a triple alliance of common worship to the Lord and of blessing to
others (vv 23–25). Isaiah’s missionary outlook here is remarkable.

Chapter 20 describes Sargon’s march against Egypt and Ethiopia,
containing a brief symbolic prediction of Assyria’s victory over Egypt
and Ethiopia. By donning a captive’s garb for three years, Isaiah
attempts to teach the citizens of Jerusalem that the siege of Ashdod was
but a means to an end in Sargon’s plan of campaign, and that it was
sheer folly for the Egyptian party in Jerusalem, who were ever urging
reliance upon Egypt, to look in that direction for help. In 21:11f is a
brief oracle concerning Seir or Edom, “the only gentle utterance in the
OT upon Israel’s hereditary foe.” Edom is in great anxiety. The
prophet’s answer is disappointing, though its tone is sympathetic. In
21:13–17 is a brief oracle concerning Arabia. It contains a sympathetic
appeal to the Temanites to give bread and water to the caravans of
Dedan, who have been driven by war from their usual route of travel.

Chapter 22 concerns the foreign temper within the theocracy. It is
composed of two parts: (1) an oracle “of the valley of vision,” i.e.,
Jerusalem (vv 1–14); and (2) a tirade against Shebna, the steward of the
palace. Isaiah pauses, as it were, in his series of warnings to foreign
nations to rebuke the foreign temper of the frivolous inhabitants of
Jerusalem, and in particular Shebna, a high official in the government.
The reckless and God-ignoring citizens of the capital are pictured as
indulging themselves in hilarious eating and drinking, when the enemy is
at that very moment standing before the gates of the city. Shebna, on
the other hand, seems to have been an ostentatious foreigner, perhaps a
Syrian by birth, quite possibly one of the Egyptian party, whose policy
was antagonistic to that of Isaiah and the king. Isaiah’s prediction of
Shebna’s fall was evidently fulfilled (36:3; 37:2).

Chapter 23 concerns Tyre. In this oracle Isaiah predicts that Tyre shall
be laid waste (v 1), its commercial glory humbled (v 9), its colonies
made independent (v 10), and Tyre itself forgotten for “seventy years”
(v 15); but “after the end of seventy years,” its trade will revive, its
business prosperity will return, and it will dedicate its gains in
merchandise as holy to the Lord (v 18).

The third great section of the book of Isaiah embraces chs 24–27, which
tell of the Lord’s world-judgment, issuing in the redemption of Israel.
These prophecies are closely related to chs 13–23. They express the same
tender emotion as that already observed in 15:5; 16:11, and sum up as in
one grand finale the prophet’s oracles to Israel’s neighbors. For
religious importance they stand second to none in the book of Isaiah,
teaching the necessity of divine discipline and the glorious redemption
awaiting the faithful in Israel. They are a spiritual commentary on the
great Assyrian crisis of the 8th cent; they are messages of salvation
intended not for declamation but for meditation, and were probably
addressed more particularly to the prophet’s inner circle of “disciples”
(8:16). These chapters partake of the nature of apocalypse. Strictly
speaking, however, they are prophecy, not apocalypse. No one ascends
into heaven or talks with an angel, as in Dnl. 7 and Rev. 4. They are
apocalypse only in the sense that certain things are predicted as sure
to come to pass Isaiah was fond of this kind of prophecy. He frequently
lifts his reader out of the sphere of mere history to paint pictures of
the distant future (2:2–4; 4:2–6; 11:6–16; 30:27–33).

In ch 24 the prophet announces a general judgment of the earth (i.e.,
the land of Judah), and of “the city” (collective for Judah’s towns),
after which will dawn a better day (vv 1–15). The prophet fancies he
hears songs of deliverance, but alas! they are premature; more judgment
must follow. In ch 25 the prophet transports himself to the period after
the Assyrian catastrophe and, identifying himself with the redeemed,
puts into their mouths songs of praise and thanksgiving for their
deliverance. Verses 6–8 describe the Lord’s bountiful banquet on Mt.
Zion to all nations, who, in keeping with 2:2–4, come up to Jerusalem to
celebrate “a feast of fat things,” rich and marrowy. While the people
are present at the banquet, the Lord graciously removes their spiritual
blindness so that they behold Him as the true dispenser of life and
grace. He also abolishes war (cf. 2:4), and its sad accompaniment,
“tears,” so that “the earth” (i.e., the land of Judah) is no longer the
battlefield of the nations, but the blessed abode of the redeemed,
living in peace and happiness. The prophet’s aim is not political but
religious.

In 26:1–19 Judah sings a song over Jerusalem, the impregnable city of
God. The prophet, taking again his stand with the redeemed remnant of
the nation, vividly portrays their thankful trust in the Lord, who has
been to them a veritable “everlasting rock” (26:4). With hope he
joyfully exclaims, Let the Lord’s dead ones live! Let Israel’s dead
bodies arise! The Lord will bring life from the dead! (v 19). This is
the first clear statement of the resurrection in the OT. But it is
national and restricted to Israel (cf. v 14), and is merely Isaiah’s
method of expressing a hope of the return of Israel’s faithful ones from
captivity (cf. Hos. 6:2; Ezk. 37:1–14; Dnl. 12:2).

In 26:20–27:13 the prophet shows that Israel’s chastisements are
temporary. He begins by exhorting his own people, his disciples, to
continue a little longer in the solitude of prayer, till God’s wrath has
shattered the world-powers (26:20–27:1). He next predicts that the true
vineyard of the Lord will henceforth be safely guarded against the
briers and thorns of foreign invasion (27:2–6). And then, after showing
that the Lord’s chastisements of Israel were light compared with His
judgments upon other nations (27:7–11), he promises that if Israel will
only repent, the Lord will spare no pains to gather “one by one” the
remnant of His people from Assyria and Egypt (cf. 11:11); and together
they shall once more worship the Lord in the holy mountain at Jerusalem
(27:12f).

The prophet’s fundamental standpoint in chs 24–27 is the same as that of
2:2–4 and chs 13–23. Yet the prophet not infrequently throws himself
forward into the remote future, oscillating between his own times and
those of Israel’s restoration. It is especially noteworthy how he
sustains himself in a long and continued transportation of himself to
the period of Israel’s redemption. He even studies to identify himself
with the new Israel that will emerge out of the present chaos of
political events. His visions of Israel’s redemption carry him in
ecstasy far away into the remote future, to a time when the nation’s
sufferings are all over; so that when he writes down what he saw in
vision he describes it as a discipline that is past. For example, in
25:1–8 the prophet, transported to the end of time, celebrates in song
what he saw, and describes how the fall of the world-empire is followed
by the conversion of the heathen. In 26:8f he looks back into the past
from the standpoint of the redeemed in the last days, and tells how
Israel longingly waited for the manifestation of God’s righteousness
which has now taken place, while in 27:7–9 he places himself in the
midst of the nation’s sufferings, in full view of its glorious future,
and portrays how the Lord’s dealings with Israel have not been the
punishment of wrath, but the discipline of love. This kind of
apocalypse, or prophecy, was indeed to be expected from the very
beginning of the group of prophecies, which are introduced with the word
“Behold!” Such a manner of introduction is peculiar to Isaiah, and of
itself leads us to expect a message that is unique.

The practical religious value of these prophecies to Isaiah’s own age
would be very great. In a period of war and repeated foreign invasion,
when but few people were left in the land (24:6, 13; 26:18), and Judah’s
cities were laid waste and desolate (24:10, 12; 25:2; 26:5; 27:10), and
music and gladness were wanting (24:8), when the nation still clung to
its idols (27:9), and the Assyrians’ work of destruction was still
incomplete, other calamities were sure to follow (24:16). It would
certainly be comforting to know that forgiveness was still possible
(27:9), that the Lord was still the keeper of His vineyard (27:3f), that
His judgments were to last but for a little moment (26:20), that though
His people should be scattered, He would soon carefully gather them “one
by one” (27:12f), that in company with other nations they would feast
together on Mt. Zion as the Lord’s guests (25:6–10), and that Jerusalem
should henceforth become the center of life and religion to all nations
(24:23; 25:6; 27:13). Such faith in the Lord, such exhortations and such
songs and confessions of the redeemed, seen in vision, would be a source
of rich spiritual comfort to the few suffering saints in Judah and
Jerusalem, and a guiding star to the faithful disciples of the prophet’s
most inner circle.

Chapters 28–35 contain a cycle of prophetic warnings against alliance
with Egypt, closing with a prophecy concerning Edom and a promise of
Israel’s ransom. As in 5:8–23, the prophet indulges in a series of six
woes.

(1) Woe to drunken, scoffing politicians (ch 28). This is one of the
great chapters of Isaiah’s book. In the opening section (vv 1–6) the
prophet points in warning to the proud drunkards of Ephraim whose crown
(Samaria) is rapidly fading. He next turns to the scoffing politicians
of Jerusalem, rebuking especially the bibulous priests who stumble in
judgment, and the staggering prophets who err in vision (vv 7–22). He
closes with a most instructive parable from agriculture, teaching that
God’s judgments are not arbitrary; that as the husbandman does not plow
and harrow his fields the whole year round, so God will not punish His
people forever; and as the husbandman does not thresh all kinds of grain
with equal severity, no more will God discipline His people beyond their
deserts (vv 23–29).

(2) Woe to formalists in religion (29:1–14). Isaiah’s second woe is
pronounced upon Ariel, the altar-hearth of God, i.e., Jerusalem, the
sacrificial center of Israel’s worship of the Lord in Zion. But now
Zion’s worship has become wholly conventional, formal, and therefore
insincere; it is learned by rote (v 13; cf. 1:10–15; Mic. 6:6–8).
Therefore, says Isaiah, the Lord is forced to do an extraordinary work
among them, in order to bring them back to a true knowledge of Himself
(v 14).

(3) Woe to those who hide their plans from God (29:15–24). What their
plans are, which they are devising in secret, the prophet does not yet
disclose; but he doubtless alludes to their intrigues with the Egyptians
and their purpose to break faith with the Assyrians, to whom they were
bound by treaty to pay annual tribute. Isaiah bravely remonstrates with
them for supposing that any policy will succeed that excludes the
counsel and wisdom of the Holy One. They are but clay; He is the potter.
At this point, though somewhat abruptly, Isaiah turns his face toward
the messianic future. In a very little while, he says, Lebanon, which is
now overrun by Assyria’s army, shall become a fruitful field, and the
blind and deaf and spiritually weak shall rejoice in the Holy One of
Israel.

(4) Woe to the pro-Egyptian party (ch 30). Isaiah’s fourth woe is
directed against the rebellious politicians who stubbornly, and now
openly, advocate making a league with Egypt. They have at length
succeeded apparently in winning over the king to their side, and an
embassy is already on its way to Egypt, bearing across the desert of the
Exodus rich treasures with which to purchase the friendship of their
former oppressors. Isaiah now condemns what he can no longer prevent.
Egypt is a Rahab “who sits still,” i.e., a mythological sea monster,
menacing in appearance but slow to act. When the crisis comes, Egypt
will do nothing, causing Israel only shame and confusion.

(5) Woe to those who trust in horses and chariots (chs 31–32). Isaiah’s
fifth woe is a still more vehement denunciation of those who trust in
Egypt’s horses and chariots, and disregard the Holy One of Israel. Those
who do so forget that the Egyptians are but men and their horses flesh,
and that mere flesh cannot avail in a conflict with spirit. Eventually
the Lord means to deliver Jerusalem, if the children of Israel will but
turn from their idolatries to Him; and in that day Assyria will be
vanquished. A new era will dawn upon Judah. Society will be regenerated.
The renovation will begin at the top. Conscience also will be sharpened,
and moral distinctions will no longer be confused (32:1–8). As Delitzsch
puts it, “The aristocracy of birth and wealth will be replaced by an
aristocracy of character.” The careless and indifferent women, too, in
that day will no longer menace the social welfare of the state
(32:9–14); with the outpouring of the Lord’s spirit an ideal
commonwealth will emerge, in which social righteousness, peace, plenty,
and security will abound (32:15–20).

(6) Woe to the Assyrian destroyer (ch 33). Isaiah’s last woe is directed
against the treacherous spoiler himself, who has already laid waste the
cities of Judah, and is now beginning to lay siege to Jerusalem (701
b.c.). The prophet prays, and while he prays, behold! the mighty hosts
of the Assyrians are routed and the long-besieged but now triumphant
inhabitants of Jerusalem rush out like locusts upon the spoil that the
vanishing adversary has been forced to leave behind. The destroyer’s
plan to reduce Jerusalem has come to naught. The whole earth beholds the
spectacle of Assyria’s defeat and is filled with awe and amazement at
the mighty work of the Lord. Only the righteous may henceforth dwell in
Jerusalem. Their eyes shall behold the Messiah-king in his beauty,
reigning no longer like Hezekiah over a limited and restricted
territory, but over a land unbounded, whose inhabitants enjoy the Lord’s
peace and protection, and are free from all sin, and therefore from all
sickness (vv 17–24). With this beautiful picture of the messianic
future, the prophet’s woes find an appropriate conclusion. Isaiah never
pronounced a woe without adding a corresponding promise.

In chs 34–35, the prophet utters a fierce cry for justice against “all
the nations,” but against Edom in particular. His tone is that of
judgment. Edom is guilty of high crimes against Zion (34:8f); therefore
it is doomed to destruction. On the other hand, the scattered ones of
Israel shall return from exile and “obtain joy and gladness, and sorrow
and sighing shall flee away” (ch 35).

Chapters 36–39 have history, prophecy, and song intermingled. These
chapters serve both as an appendix to chs 1–35 and as an introduction to
chs 40–66. In them three important historical events are narrated, in
which Isaiah was a prominent factor: (1) the double attempt of
Sennacherib to obtain possession of Jerusalem (chs 36–37); (2)
Hezekiah’s sickness and recovery (ch 38); (3) the coming of the embassy
from Merodach-baladan (ch 39). With certain important omissions and
insertions these chapters are duplicated almost verbatim in 2 K.
18:13–20:19. They are introduced with the chronological note, “In the
fourteenth year of King Hezekiah.” Various attempts have been made to
solve the mystery of this date. If the author is alluding to the siege
of 701 b.c., difficulty arises, because that event occurred not in
Hezekiah’s “fourteenth” but in his twenty-sixth year, according to the
biblical chronology of his life; or, if with some we date Hezekiah’s
accession to the throne of Judah as 729 b.c., then the siege of 701 b.c.
occurred, as is evident, in Hezekiah’s twenty-eighth year. It is barely
possible of course that “the fourteenth year of King Hezekiah” was the
fourteenth of the “fifteen years” which were *added* to his life, but
more probably it alludes to the fourteenth year of his reign. On the
whole it is better to take the phrase as a general chronological caption
for the entire section, with special reference to ch 38, the story of
Hezekiah’s sickness, which actually fell in his fourteenth year (714
b.c.), and which, coupled with Sargon’s expected presence at Ashdod, was
*the* great personal crisis of the king’s life. *See also* Chronology Of
The OT V.B.

Sennacherib made two attempts in 701 b.c. to reduce Jerusalem: one from
Lachish, with an army headed by the Rabshakeh (36:2–37:8), and another
from Libnah with a threat conveyed by messengers (37:9–13). The brief
section contained in 2 K. 18:14–16 is omitted from between vv 1 and 2 of
Isa. 36, because it was not the prophet’s aim at this time to recount
the nation’s humiliation. Isaiah’s last “word” concerning Assyria
(37:21–35) is one of the prophet’s grandest predictions. It is composed
of three parts: (1) a taunt-song, in elegiac rhythm, on the inevitable
humiliation of Sennacherib (vv 22–29); (2) a short poem in different
rhythm, directed to Hezekiah, in order to encourage his faith (vv
30–32); (3) a definite prediction, in less elevated style, of the sure
deliverance of Jerusalem (vv 33–35). Isaiah’s prediction was literally
fulfilled.

The section 38:9–20 contains Hezekiah’s Song of Thanksgiving, in which
he celebrates his recovery from some mortal sickness. It is a beautiful,
plaintive “writing,” omitted altogether by the author of the book of
Kings (cf. 2 K. 20). Hezekiah was sick in 714 b.c. Two years later
Merodach-baladan, the veteran archenemy of Assyria, having heard of his
wonderful recovery, sent letters and a present to congratulate him.
Doubtless, also, political motives prompted the recalcitrant Babylonian.
But be that as it may, Hezekiah was greatly flattered by the visit of
Merodach-baladan’s envoys, and, in a moment of weakness, showed them all
his royal treasures. This was an inexcusable blunder, as the sight of
his many precious possessions would naturally excite Babylonian cupidity
to possess Jerusalem. Isaiah not only solemnly condemned the king’s
conduct, but he announced with more than ordinary insight that the days
were coming when all the accumulated resources of Jerusalem would be
carried away to Babylon (39:3–6; cf. Mic. 4:10). This final prediction
of judgment is the most marvelous of all Isaiah’s minatory utterances,
because he distinctly asserts that not the Assyrians, who were then at
the height of their power, but the Babylonians would be the instruments
of the divine vengeance in consummating the destruction of Jerusalem.
There seems to be no real reason to doubt the genuineness of this
prediction. In it, indeed, we have a prophetic basis for chs 40–66,
which follow.

Coming now to chs 40–66, we have prophecies of comfort, salvation, and
of the future glory awaiting Israel. These chapters naturally fall into
three sections: (1) chs 40–48, announcing deliverance from captivity
through Cyrus; (2) chs 49–57, describing the sufferings of the “Servant”
of the Lord, this section ending like the former with the refrain,
“There is no peace, says my God, for the wicked” (57:21; cf. 48:22); (3)
chs 58–66, announcing the final abolition of all national distinctions
and the future glory of the people of God. Chapter 60 is the
characteristic chapter of this section, as ch 53 is of the second, and
ch 40 of the first.

In greater detail, the first section (chs 40–48) demonstrates the deity
of the Lord through His unique power to predict. The basis of the
comfort that the prophet announces is Israel’s incomparable God (ch 40).
Israel’s all-powerful Lord is incomparable. In the prologue (40:1–11) he
hears the four voices: (1) of grace (vv 1f); (2) of prophecy (vv 3–5);
(3) of faith (vv 6–8), and (4) of evangelism (vv 9–11). Then, after
exalting the unique character of Israel’s all-but-forgotten God (vv
12–26), he exhorts the people not to suppose that the Lord is ignorant
of, or indifferent to, Israel’s misery. Israel must wait for salvation.
They are clamoring for deliverance prematurely. Only wait, he repeats;
for with such a God, Israel has no reason to despair (vv 27–31).

In ch 41 he declares that the supreme proof of the Lord’s sole deity is
His power to predict. He inquires, “Who stirred up one from the east?”
Though the hero is left unnamed, Cyrus is doubtless in the prophet’s
mind (cf. 44:28; 45:1). He is not, however, already appearing upon the
horizon of history as some fancy, but rather *predicted* as sure to
come. The verb tenses that express completed action are perfects of
certainty, and are used in precisely the same manner as those in 3:8;
5:13; 21:9. The answer to the inquiry is, “I, the Lord, the first, and
with the last; I am He” (41:4). Israel is the Lord’s servant. The
dialogue continues; but it is no longer between the Lord and the
nations, as in vv 1–7, but between the Lord and the idols (vv 21–29).
Addressing the dumb idols, the Lord is represented as saying, Predict
something, if you are real deities. As for myself, I am going to raise
up a hero from the north who will subdue all who oppose him. And I
announce my purpose now in advance “from the beginning,” “beforetime,”
before there is the slightest ground for thinking that such a hero
exists or ever will exist (v 26), in order that the future may verify my
prediction, and prove my sole deity. I, the Lord, alone know the future.
In vv 25–29, the prophet even projects himself into the future and
speaks from the standpoint of the fulfillment of his prediction. This,
as we saw above, was a characteristic of Isaiah in chs 24–27.

In 42:1–43:13 the prophet announces also a spiritual agent of
redemption, namely, the Lord’s “Servant.” Not only a temporal agent
(Cyrus) shall be raised up to mediate Israel’s redemption, which is the
first step in the process of the universal salvation contemplated, but a
spiritual factor. The Lord’s “Servant” shall be employed in bringing the
good tidings of salvation to the exiles and to the Gentiles also. In
42:1–9 the prophet describes this ideal figure and the work he will
execute. The glorious future evokes a brief hymn of thanksgiving for the
redemption that the prophet beholds in prospect (42:10–17). Israel has
long been blind and deaf to the Lord’s instructions (42:18f), but now
the Lord is determined to redeem them even at the cost of the most
opulent nations of the world, that they may publish His law to all
peoples (42:18–43:13).

In 43:14–44:23 forgiveness is made the pledge of deliverance. The Lord’s
determination to redeem Israel is all of grace. Salvation is a gift. The
Lord has blotted out their transgressions for His own sake (43:25).
“This passage,” Dillmann observes, “marks the highest point of grace in
the OT.” Gods of wood and stone are nonentities. Those who manufacture
idols are blind and dull of heart, and are “feeding on ashes.” The
section 44:9–20 is a most remorseless exposure of the folly of idolatry.

In 44:24–45:25 the prophet at length names the hero of Israel’s
salvation and describes his mission. He is Cyrus. He shall build
Jerusalem and lay the foundations of the temple (44:28); he shall also
subdue nations and let the exiles go free (45:1, 13). He speaks of Cyrus
in the most extraordinary, almost extravagant terms. He is the Lord’s
“shepherd” (44:28); he is also the Lord’s “anointed,” i.e., Messiah
(45:1), “the man of my counsel” (46:11), whom the Lord has called by
name, and surnamed without his ever knowing Him (45:3f); the one “whom
the Lord loves” (48:14), whose right hand the Lord grasps (45:1), and
who will perform all the Lord’s purposes (44:28); though but “a bird of
prey from the east” (46:11). The vividness with which the prophet speaks
of Cyrus leads some to suppose that the latter is already upon the
horizon. This, however, is a mistake. Scarcely would a contemporary have
spoken in such terms of the real Cyrus of 538 b.c. The prophet regards
him (i.e., the Cyrus of his own prediction, not the Cyrus of history) as
the fulfillment of predictions spoken long before. That is to say, in
one and the same context, Cyrus is both predicted and treated as a proof
that prediction is being fulfilled (44:24–28; 45:21). Such a phenomenon
in prophecy can best be explained by supposing that the prophet
projected himself into the future from an earlier age. Most
extraordinary of all, in 45:14–17 the prophet soars in imagination until
he sees, as a result of Cyrus’ victories, the conquered nations
renouncing their idols, and attracted to the Lord as the Savior of all
mankind (45:22). On any theory of origin, the predictive element in
these prophecies is written large.

Chapters 46–47 describe further the distinctive work of Cyrus, though
Cyrus himself is but once referred to. Particular emphasis is laid on
the complete collapse of the Babylonian religion, the prophet being
apparently more concerned with the humiliation of Babylon’s idols than
with the fall of the city itself. Of course the destruction of the city
would imply the defeat of its gods, as also the emancipation of Israel.
But here again all is in the future; in fact, the Lord’s incomparable
superiority and unique deity are proven by His power to predict “the end
from the beginning” and bring His prediction to pass (46:10f).

Chapter 47 is a dirge over the downfall of the imperial city, strongly
resembling the taunt-song over the king of Babylon in 14:4–21.

Chapter 48 is a hortatory summary and recapitulation of the argument
contained in chs 40–47, the prophet again emphasizing the following
points: (1) the Lord’s unique power to predict; (2) that salvation is of
grace; (3) that Cyrus’ advent will be the crowning proof of the Lord’s
abiding presence among His people; (4) that God’s chastisements were
only disciplinary; and (5) that even now there is hope, if they will but
accept the Lord’s proffered salvation. Alas! that there is no peace or
salvation for the godless (48:20–22). Thus ends the first division of
Isaiah’s remarkable vision of Israel’s deliverance from captivity
through Cyrus.

The second section (chs 49–57) deals with the spiritual agent of
salvation, the Lord’s Suffering Servant. With ch 49 the prophet leaves
off attempting further to prove the sole deity of the Lord by means of
prediction, and drops entirely his description of Cyrus’ victories and
the overthrow of Babylon, in order to set forth in greater detail the
character and mission of the suffering Servant of the Lord. In chs 40–48
he had alluded several times to this unique and somewhat enigmatical
personage, speaking of him both collectively and as an individual
(41:8–10; 42:1–9, 18–22; 43:10; 44:1–5, 21–28; 45:4; 48:20–22); but now
he defines with greater precision both his prophetic and priestly
functions, his equipment for his task, his sufferings and humiliation,
and also his final exaltation. Altogether in these prophecies he
mentions the Servant some twenty times. But there are four distinctive
servant passages in which the prophet seems to rise above the collective
masses of all Israel to at least a personification of the pious within
Israel or, better, to a unique person embodying within himself all that
is best in the Israel within Israel. They are the following: (1) 42:1–9,
a poem descriptive of the Servant’s gentle manner and worldwide mission;
(2) 49:1–13, describing the Servant’s mission and spiritual success; (3)
50:4–11, the Servant’s soliloquy concerning His perfection through
suffering; and (4) 52:13–53:12, the Servant’s vicarious suffering and
ultimate exaltation. In this last of the four servant passages we reach
the climax of the prophet’s inspired symphony, the acme of Israel’s
messianic hope. The profoundest thoughts in the OT revelation are to be
found in this section. It is a vindication of the Servant, so clear and
so true, and wrought out with such pathos and potency, that it holds
first place among messianic predictions. Polycarp called it “the golden
passional of the OT.” According to the NT (cf. Acts 8:32f) it has been
realized in Jesus Christ.

Chapters 58–66 describe the future glory of the people of God. Having
described in chs 40–48 the temporal agent of Israel’s salvation, Cyrus,
and in chs 49–57 the spiritual agent of their salvation, the Servant of
the Lord, the prophet proceeds in this last section to define the
conditions on which salvation may be enjoyed. He begins, as before, with
a double imperative, “Cry aloud, spare not” (cf. 40:1; 49:1).

In ch 58 he discusses true fasting and faithful sabbath observance.

In ch 59 he beseeches Israel to forsake their sins. It is their sins, he
urges, that have hidden the Lord’s face and retarded the nation’s
salvation. In vv 9–12 the prophet identifies himself with the people and
leads them in their devotions. The Lord is grieved over Israel’s forlorn
condition, and, seeing their helplessness, He arms himself like a
warrior to interfere judicially (vv 15–19). Israel shall be redeemed.
With them as the nucleus of a new nation, the Lord will enter anew into
covenant relation, and put His spirit upon them, which will abide with
them henceforth and forever (vv 20f).

Chapters 60–61 describe the future blessedness of Zion. The
long-looked-for “light” (cf. 59:9) begins to dawn: “Arise, shine; for
your light has come, and the glory of the Lord has risen upon you”
(60:1). The prophet pauses at this point to paint a picture of the
redeemed community. As in 2:3f the Gentiles are seen flocking to Zion,
which becomes the mistress of the nations. Foreigners build its walls,
and its gates are kept open continually without fear of siege. The
Gentiles acknowledge that Zion is the spiritual center of the world.
Even Israel’s oppressors regard it as “the city of the Lord,” as
“majestic for ever,” in which the Lord sits as its everlasting light
(60:10–22).

In ch 61, which Drummond has called “the program of Christianity,” the
Servant of the Lord is again introduced, though anonymously, as the
herald of salvation (vv 1–3). The gospel monologue of the Servant is
followed by a promise of the restoration and blessedness of Jerusalem
(vv 4–11). Thus the prophecy moves steadily forward toward its goal in
Jesus Christ (cf. Lk. 4:18–21).

In 62:1–63:6 Zion’s salvation is described as drawing near. The nations
will be spectators of the great event. A new name that will better
symbolize its true character shall be given to Zion, Heb *ḥep̱ṣî–ḇāh*,
“My delight is in her”; for Jerusalem shall no more be called desolate.
On the other hand, Zion’s enemies will all be vanquished. In a brief
poem of peculiar dramatic beauty (63:1–6), the prophet portrays the
Lord’s vengeance, as a victorious warrior, upon all those who retard
Israel’s deliverance. Edom in particular was Israel’s insatiate foe.
Hence the prophet represents the Lord’s judgment of the nations as
taking place on Edom’s unhallowed soil. The Lord, whose mighty arm has
wrought salvation, returns as victor, having slain all of Israel’s foes.

In 63:7–64:12, the Lord’s “servants” resort to prayer. They appeal to
the Lord as the Begetter and Father of the nations (63:16; 64:8). With
this thought of the Fatherhood of God imbedded in his language, Isaiah
had opened his very first oracle to Judah and Jerusalem (cf. 1:2). As
the prayer proceeds, the language becomes increasingly tumultuous. The
people are thrown into despair because the Lord seems to have abandoned
them altogether (63:19). They recognize that the condition of Jerusalem
is desperate. “Our holy and beautiful house, where our fathers praised
thee, has been burned by fire, and all our pleasant places have become
ruins” (64:11). Such language, however, is the language of fervent
prayer and must not be taken with rigid literalness, as 63:18 and 3:8
plainly show.

Finally, in chs 65–66, the Lord answers His people’s supplications,
distinguishing sharply between His own servants and Israel’s apostates.
Only His chosen seed shall be delivered (65:9). Those who have
obdurately provoked the Lord by sacrificing in gardens (65:3; 66:17),
offering libations to Fortune and Destiny (65:11), sitting among the
graves to obtain oracles from the dead, and, like the Egyptians, eating
swine’s flesh and broth of abominable things that were supposed to
possess magical properties, lodging in vaults or crypts in which heathen
mysteries were celebrated (65:4), and at the same time fancying that by
celebrating such heathen mysteries they are holier than others and
thereby disqualified to discharge the ordinary duties of life (65:5) —
such the Lord designs to punish, measuring their work into their bosom
and destroying them utterly with the sword (65:7, 12). On the other
hand, the servants of the Lord shall inherit His holy mountains. They
shall rejoice and sing for joy of heart, and bless themselves in the God
of amen, i.e., in the God of truth (65:9, 14, 16). The Lord will create
new heavens and a new earth, people will live and grow old like the
patriarchs; they will possess houses and vineyards and enjoy them; for
an era of idyllic peace will be ushered in with the coming of the
messianic age, in which even the natures of wild animals will be changed
and the most rapacious of wild animals will live together in harmony
(65:17–25). Religion will become spiritual and decentralized, mystic
cults will disappear, and incredulous scoffers will be silenced. Zion’s
population will be marvelously multiplied, and the people will be
comforted and rejoice (66:1–14). Furthermore, all nations will flock to
Zion to behold the Lord’s glory, and from one new moon to another, and
from one sabbath to another, all flesh will come up to worship in
Jerusalem (66:15–23).

It is evident that the book of Isaiah closes, practically as it begins,
with a polemic against false worship, and the alternate reward of the
righteous and punishment of the wicked. The only essential difference
between the prophet’s earlier and later oracles is this: Isaiah, in his
riper years, on the basis of nearly half a century’s experience as a
preacher, paints a much brighter eschatological picture than was
possible in his early ministry. His picture of the messianic age not
only transcends those of his contemporaries in the 8th cent b.c., but he
penetrates regions beyond the spiritual horizon of any and all OT seers.
Such language as that contained in 66:1f, in particular, anticipates the
great principle enunciated by Jesus in Jn. 4:24, namely, that “God is
spirit, and those who worship him must worship in spirit and truth.”

VIII. The Critical Problem
==========================

**A. History of Criticism**The Isaianic authorship of the entire
prophecy was never questioned either in the OT period or that of early
Christendom. The frequency with which the NT referred to Isaiah, who was
cited more than all the other OT prophets combined, confirmed the view
in the minds of early Christians that the composition was an integer,
consciously composed by a single person. The NT references are as
follows: Mt. 3:3; 8:17; 12:17–21; 13:14f; 15:7–9; Mk. 1:2f; 7:6f; Lk.
3:4–6; 4:17–19; Jn. 1:23; 12:38–41; Acts 8:28–33; 28:25–29; Rom.
9:27–29; 10:16, 20f. If these quotations are examined, it will be seen
that they refer to all parts of the prophecy, with citations from the
first thirty-nine chapters being about the same in number as those from
the last twenty-seven chapters. Many of these do not refer to the book
as such, but rather attribute the utterance quoted to the man Isaiah
himself. Hence we meet such phrases as “Isaiah the prophet,” “the
prophet Isaiah,” “Isaiah prophesied,” “Isaiah said again,” “Isaiah said
… saw … spoke,” “Isaiah cries,” “Isaiah says,” “As Isaiah said before,”
“Isaiah becomes bold and says,” “Well spoke the Holy Ghost through
Isaiah the prophet.” Thus it appears that the NT attributes various
sections of the prophecy to the man Isaiah himself.

The unity of Isaiah was maintained in Christendom without question until
the late 18th cent, though this degree of unanimity was not as evident
in certain Jewish circles. It may have been that the talmudic tradition
(TB *Baba Bathra* 15a) furnished some freedom for speculation in this
respect, affirming that “Hezekiah and his company wrote Isaiah,
Proverbs, the Song of Songs and Ecclesiastes,” even though the verb
“wrote” was being employed technically in the sense of “edited” or
“compiled.” The allusion to the “company” of Hezekiah was evidently to
his eighth-century b.c. contemporaries who were responsible, under his
direction, for the compilation and arranging of certain literary
products (cf. Prov. 25:1). Be this as it may, the Talmud clearly set the
writings of Isaiah against an eighth-century b.c. Palestinian milieu and
credited Hezekiah’s “company” with their arrangement in extant form.
Some medieval Jewish commentators, however, began to question this
tradition; e.g., Ibn Ezra (a.d. 1092–1167) denied that Isaiah was the
author of the last twenty-seven chapters. In the following century a
Spanish Jew, Moses Ibn Gekatilla, also wrote a commentary on Isaiah in
which he denied that chs 40–66 were the work of the eighth-century
prophet, and attributed them instead to the postexilic period. These
tendencies exerted no influence upon contemporary Christian opinion,
however, and it was not until the 18th cent that the impact of European
rationalistic thought began to be felt on the prophecy of Isaiah.

Modern literary criticism of the book can be said to have begun with
Döderlein’s *Esaias* (1775), in which the author suggested, without any
compelling evidence, that the book comprised two distinct works. In the
German edition (1779–81) of the commentary on Isaiah by R. Lowth, J. B.
Koppe advanced the view that ch 50 might have come from an exilic
writer, perhaps Ezekiel, but again nothing was adduced in the nature of
historical evidence. Almost immediately this trend attracted the
attention of German scholars, and in his OT introduction Eichhorn
adopted the position held by the medieval Jewish commentators, regarding
chs 40–66 as the work of some person other than Isaiah ben Amoz. With
the commentary by Gesenius (1821) there emerged the view that, while chs
40–66 were non-Isaianic in character, they were still an essential
literary unity. This opinion was supported by scholars such as Knobel,
G. A. Smith, König, and Torrey, though not all critics who reviewed the
problem were convinced that these chapters were the work of a single
author, an unknown exilic prophet who by this time had become known for
convenience as Second or Deutero-Isaiah. Thus Stade, in his *Geschichte
des Volkes Israel* (1888), stoutly refuted the possibility that the last
five chapters of the prophecy in their extant form could have been
written by Isaiah at all. Budde enlarged this number in 1891 to include
at least chs 56–59, but Duhm and Marti found that even this suggestion
was inadequate. Instead, in 1892, they advanced the opinion that chs
40–55 had been composed by a Second Isaiah in Babylon somewhat before
the liberating decree of Cyrus in 538 b.c., while a third or
Trito-Isaiah was credited with having written chs 56–66, probably in
Palestine and subsequent to 538 b.c.

The opinions of Duhm and Marti found quick acceptance and were soon
adopted as the official literary-critical view of the composition of
Isaiah. Not all liberal scholars were attracted to it, however, because
some of them, caught up in the fervor of source-fragmentation, were
already challenging the postulated unity of chs 40–55. In this the way
had been opened up by Rückert, who as early as 1831 had used the
pronouncement “there is no peace, says the Lord, to the wicked” (48:22),
which occurred in similar form in 57:21, to divide chs 40–55 into two
subsections consisting of chs 40–48 and 49–55. Kuenen in 1889 maintained
that the bulk of chs 50–55 had come from a period later than 536 b.c.,
and that Second Isaiah could conceivably have had a hand in composing
the material. Kosters, however, denied any section of chs 40–55 to a
Second Isaiah, and this view was adopted by Cheyne in the *Polychrome
Bible* (1898). The pervasive influence of Duhm was seen in the writings
of Skinner, especially his *Cambridge Bible* commentary on Isaiah
(1896–98), and he, along with A. B. Davidson and G. A. Smith, was
responsible for promoting German literary-critical views relating to the
composition of Isaiah among English-speaking peoples.

When the form-critical procedures of Gunkel began to be applied to
Isaiah, some scholars regarded chs 40–55 as an anthology of poetic
material composed by Second Isaiah and arranged without regard to
particular order. Those who supported such a position included
Gressmann, Mowinckel, Eissfeldt, and Volz. The speculations of Duhm
regarding the possibility of a Trito or Third Isaiah who had supposedly
been the author of chs 56–65 also found advocates in Europe, among whom
were Kosters, Littmann, Box, Elliger, and Sellin. Other liberal critics
wondered if chs 56–66 could in fact be assigned with confidence to a
single author, and the results of their speculations, which attributed
various sections of these chapters to the work of anonymous individual
writers, tended to increase still further the fragmentation of the
prophecy and carry the process to all sorts of subjective extremes.
Writers who pursued this line of approach included Cheyne, Budde,
Buttenwieser, Marti, Levy, and Lods.

As part of the general literary criticism of Isaiah, some sections of
the prophecy that became known as the servant passages (42:1–4, or
perhaps 1–9; 49:1–6, or perhaps 1–9; 50:4–9, or perhaps 4–11;
52:13–53:12) fell under scholarly scrutiny, and provoked wide
divergences of opinion in consequence. For the first three hundred years
of its existence, the Church commonly identified the Servant of Isaiah
with the righteous, whether on an individual or collective basis, while
at the same time interpreting ch 53 as a messianic prophecy.
Subsequently the messianic interpretation became the standard way of
regarding the Servant of the Lord, but when European scholars began to
reject Isaianic authorship of the prophecy, the Davidic messiah was
gradually abandoned in favor of seeing the Servant in terms of the whole
nation of Israel. In the 18th cent this was begun by Semler (1771),
Koppe (1779), and Eichhorn (1794), and continued in the following
century with some variations by Vatke (1835), Ewald (1840), Davidson
(1863), Cheyne (1870), and Driver (1888) among others, most of whom
thought of an ideal and spiritual Israel rather than an actual
historical people.

While these attempts at interpretation were taking place, the
significance of which will be considered subsequently, scholars were
attempting to relate the composition of the servant passages to the work
of one or more of the “Isaiahs” allegedly involved in the writing of chs
40–66. Fullkrug, Ley, and Blank thought that the poems were composed by
Second Isaiah during the Exile as part of the section of the prophecy
attributed to him, while Condamin, Sellin, Levy, and others maintained
that, while Second Isaiah was the author, the material was late rather
than early, and was incorporated into the prophecy in the postexilic
period. Some European scholars, including Fischer, Rudolph, and Hempel,
thought that the servant passages had been written by Second Isaiah
after the bulk of his work had been completed, and as a result had been
interpolated into the Hebrew text. Wellhausen offered a variant form of
this hypothesis in suggesting that the poems had been composed by an
earlier unknown author and had been taken over by Second Isaiah, who
incorporated them later into his own work. Yet another view, supported
by Duhm, Kittel, Kennett, and others, suggested that the oracles were
the work of an anonymous composer who wrote at a later time than Second
Isaiah and whose compositions were added subsequently to the prophecy by
an equally unknown editor. In all of these speculations the appeal to
ignorance was a marked feature, and none of the scholars involved
apparently thought it either desirable or necessary to attempt to adduce
objective data by which their conclusions could be tested, preferring
instead to follow the highly subjective a priori procedures employed by
the Graf-Wellhausen school.

These attempts to fragment the prophecy of Isaiah were more than essays
in literary criticism. They were in fact a microcosm of the age, and one
expression of the evolutionary *Zeitgeist* that could be found both in
the humanities and in the descriptive sciences in the 19th century. The
philosophical speculations of Hegel had encouraged the European savants
to think in terms of a social and intellectual environment in which
progress and development were assured. Consequently it was confidently
imagined that the ratiocinative processes of the nineteenth-century
European intelligentsia could, by their essential superiority, challenge
definitively the cogitations and the literature of earlier ages, expose
the fallacies and frailties of nonEuropean thought as never before,
strip away firmly the mythological accretions which were thought to have
accumulated over the millennia, and reveal for the first time the true
nature and content of the material under consideration. The confidence
which the nineteenth-century literary critics had in their ability to
unravel the mysteries of the authorship and date of OT books seemed
boundless; even when they were based on only the flimsiest evidence, or
as often happened on no evidence at all, the pronouncements of liberal
scholars were made with a breathtaking degree of assurance and finality.
Consequently it is not surprising to read in the literature of the day
that the division of Isaiah among several authors represented “one of
the most assured results of modern literary criticism.”

Needless to say, the approaches and conclusions espoused by the
Graf-Wellhausen school were not by any means shared by more conservative
scholars, and the emotional fervor engendered by the fragmenting of
Isaiah provoked an equally vigorous reaction among those who viewed the
prophecy as a literary unity. While there were undoubted diatribes and
denunciations on both sides, there were also discussions of an extremely
high academic order, and in some respects the erudition of late
nineteenth-century OT scholarship reached its apogee in the controversy
about the literary and historical criticism of Isaiah. One of the
earliest, and perhaps the most outstanding conservative study of Isaiah,
and one which anticipated many later objections to the literary unity of
the book, was made in 1846 by J. A. Alexander. He began by attacking the
basic weaknesses in the a priori approach of contemporary liberal
scholarship (*see* Pentateuch; Criticism), and went on to uphold the
Isaianic authorship of chs 40–66. In this connection he stated that it
would be unparalleled in all literary history for a brilliant and
erudite author such as Isaiah to have produced a series of prophecies of
such vital importance for the Babylonian exiles, and then to have
disappeared both from the local scene and from human memory without
leaving any trace of his own personality upon them. He also asked how it
was possible for this anonymous material to have been attached to the
writings of Isaiah ben Amoz when, according to liberal critics, they had
little or nothing in common. In addition he pointed out how
comparatively few references to Babylon and the Exile occurred in chs
40–66, a matter that C. C. Torrey was to take up with perception and
insight many years later.

In a commentary on Isaiah begun in 1845 by Drechsler and completed in
1857 by Delitzsch and Hahn, the literary unity of chs 40–66 and their
Isaianic authorship were again maintained. Delitzsch held that chs 36–39
formed a link between the Assyrian and Babylonian periods, and suggested
that chs 1–39 served as a preparation for chs 40–66. From the same
period came a brilliant commentary on Isaiah by Rudolph Stier, in which
the literary integrity of the prophecy was emphasized. Five years later,
in 1855, a Jewish–Italian commentary on Isaiah was published by
Luzzatto. In this book the author advanced the view that the last
twenty-seven chapters had been written by Isaiah ben Amoz, and that they
differed from some other sections of the book in comprising prophecies
concerning the future.

In 1866 the first edition of Franz Delitzsch’s commentary on Isaiah
appeared, and at once was recognized as an outstanding combination of
philological expertise and spiritual insight. By the time the fourth
edition was translated into English (1889) and furnished with an
introduction by S. R. Driver, it became apparent that Delitzsch had
accommodated his views throughout the work to those of most contemporary
liberal scholars. He never capitulated completely, however, to the
current critical speculations regarding the authorship of Isaiah, for he
chose to think of chs 40–66 as “testamentary discourses of the one
Isaiah, and the entire prophetic collection as the progressive
development of his incomparable charism” (*Biblical comm on the
Prophecies of Isaiah* [1880], II, pp. 125f). Elsewhere he thought that
the author of chs 40–66 was “in any case a prophet of the Isaianic type,
but of an Isaianic type peculiarly developed,” and of the material
itself as being attributable ultimately to Isaiah, if, in fact, he was
not the immediate author (pp. 129, 133).

Despite unremitting opposition from conservative scholars, the divisive
theories of Duhm held the field in liberal circles, and conveyed the
general impression that the literary-critical problems of Isaiah were
settled to all intents and purposes. Impressive though this show of
critical unanimity appeared, it was not destined to survive more than
the first four decades of the 20th century. Unmistakable fissures in the
facade began to appear by about 1940, and became evident in 1944 when
Sidney Smith delivered a series of lectures on what he deemed to be the
historical material illustrative of chs 40–55. Instead of employing the
type-analytical (*Gattungsforschung*) techniques of Gunkel and
Gressmann, Smith related the historical events of the period between 547
and 538 b.c. to the section of Isaiah that he was studying. Having
achieved this objective, he then set out the material in the original
structure of speeches composed by the prophet that had then been
circulated, according to Smith, in the form of approximately twenty-two
pamphlets. These included all of the servant passages, the last of which
(52:13–53:12) Smith connected with the death of Isaiah himself.

A barrage of criticism greeted the publication of the book, and there
can be no question but that some of the strictures were richly deserved.
Smith’s treatment of the servant passages, the fourth one in particular,
was very unsatisfactory, and much of the historical material that he had
adduced to support his thesis was extremely tenuous. His treatment of
the problem was outstanding, however, in the way in which he proposed
serious historical links between the period of 547–538 b.c. and the
material in chs 40–55 of Isaiah. It is difficult to resist the
conclusion that the criticisms of his position were aroused in no small
measure by a fear of what the future might hold for the entire scheme of
liberal criticism of Isaiah.

In 1962, Mauchline published a commentary on chs 1–39 of the prophecy,
and a notable feature of the work was the conservative position adopted
toward sections that had been regarded previously as interpolations by
later editors. The results of his study enabled him to see Isaiah as the
substantial author of chs 13–27, and in this conclusion he diverged
considerably from many liberal scholars, who had commonly assigned
certain sections of that material to a postexilic period. There were
certain contradictions in his method, however, and they seemed to be of
a kind that would beset anyone writing from a general liberal
background. Thus he saw no inconsistency, as other critics had done,
between the references to Babylon in ch 39 and Isaianic authorship of
that section; at the same time he utilized the mention of the Medes and
Babylon in Isa. 13:17–19 as a reason for adhering to an exilic date for
the passage. Had he allowed room for a genuinely predictive element in
the narrative, however, the apparent problem would have been resolved
immediately.

The literary-critical position was reemphasized by the publication of J.
L. McKenzie’s commentary on Second Isaiah (AB, 1968). He studiously
ignored any position other than his own, and seemed blissfully unaware
of the effect that certain evidence from Qumrân (see below) has had upon
the literary-critical problem of Isaiah. Meanwhile, conservative
scholars were continuing to argue for the integrity and Isaianic
authorship of the prophecy, and their writings included works by Allis
(1950), Young (1965–74), and Buksbazen (1971–74).

**B. Arguments for Divided Authorship**From the preceding survey it will
have become apparent that, as long as only internal evidence is
considered, the polarization of views concerning the authorship and date
of the prophecy is much the same now as it was a century ago. Before any
attempt is made to resolve this situation, it would seem desirable to
subject the arguments for a divided authorship of the prophecy to
careful examination so as to test their validity. According to S. R.
Driver (*intro to the Literature of the OT* [9th ed 1913], pp. 236ff),
these fell into three broad categories. First, chs 40–66 seemed to point
to a period of composition toward the close of the Babylonian Exile
rather than to a time in the 8th cent b.c. According to this view the
Exile was presupposed, not predicted, and those addressed were thought
to be already exiled and awaiting a return to Palestine. In consonance
with their general disavowal of a predictive element in prophecy,
liberal literary critics held that it was impossible for Isaiah to have
sustained so lengthy a futuristic standpoint and to have addressed
persons who were more than a century in the future.

The second argument for separating chs 40–66 and assigning them to some
author other than Isaiah ben Amoz rested upon stylistic considerations.
Accordingly it was argued that new imagery and phraseology occurred to
replace (to some degree at least) the ideas and terminology of chs 1–39,
with phenomena such as the duplication of words occurring more
prominently in chs 40–66. The literary style of this latter section was
held to be marked by a personification of cities and nature alike, a
dramatic depicting of the fortunes of individuals and nations, and an
impassioned lyricism that made the section one of outstanding literary
quality. By contrast, the style of Isaiah ben Amoz in chs 1–39 was
described as terse and compact, and the thought and ideas as moving in a
measured, unexceptional manner.

The third criterion for the division of the prophecy involved the
theological concepts of chs 40–66. Thus it was alleged that, whereas
earlier chapters spoke of God’s majesty, later ones described His
uniqueness and eternity. In the first part of the prophecy it was
maintained that the remnant constituted the faithful left behind in
Jerusalem, whereas in later chapters the remnant consisted of the exiled
Judeans about to be brought back to Palestine. A third supposition was
that the messianic king of chs 1–39 was replaced by the servant concept
of chs 40–66.

**C. Arguments Against Divided Authorship**Conservative scholars met the
first of these objections by recognizing that the difference in the
time-perspective between the first and second supposed divisions of the
prophecy was of an ideal rather than a real nature. Taking their cue
from remarks such as those made by Driver (intro, p. 237) to the effect
that there were instances where Isaiah ben Amoz projected himself into
the future and then described certain events yet to take place as though
they had already occurred (cf. 5:13–17; 9:1–7; 23:1, 14), they asked why
it would not have been possible for a prophet as great as the author of
chs 40–66 to have maintained exactly the same kind of ideal standpoint
for some prolonged period also. In addition it was pointed out that the
Exile was not an event that was still very much in the future for
Isaiah, but a process that had for long been initiated by God’s people,
and whose culmination was in fact a commonplace of prophetic observation
and prediction.

Issue was also taken with the way in which critical scholars either
minimized or else rejected completely the predictive element in
prophecy, and in particular their allegation that it would be
unprecedented for the name of Cyrus to have been mentioned more than a
century and a half before his birth. Conservative writers then cited the
prophetic utterance that foretold the name of Josiah more than three
hundred years before he was born (1 K. 13:1f), the mention of Bethlehem
by Micah, Isaiah’s contemporary, as the birthplace of the Messiah (Mic.
5:2; Mt. 2:6) some six hundred years before the event, and the
subjugation of Tyre by the Babylonians as predicted both by Ezekiel
(26:2–21) and Zechariah (9:1–4). The first of these prophecies proved
particularly embarrassing to liberal scholars, since there was
absolutely no possibility whatever of the Hebrew text being corrupt at
that point, and in the end they quietly gave up the task of attempting
to meet this devastating criticism of their position, other than
insisting that there could be no predictive element in prophecy.

Equally difficult for liberal scholarship was the task of furnishing
convincing evidence for the theory that chs 40–66 were written in
Babylonia. Duhm and others followed the general tradition of the
Graf-Wellhausen school by formulating speculative accounts of the way in
which this eventuality could have happened, but no amount of critical
ingenuity could furnish any actual proof. C. C. Torrey, one of the more
extreme critics of his day, was so skeptical of this kind of approach
that he asserted flatly that the few references to Babylon and Cyrus in
chs 40–66 were bungling editorial insertions, and that the bulk of the
material could be assigned without question to a Palestinian milieu.
Some liberal scholars made a determined attempt to see a Babylonian
background in the description of religion, buildings, and local scenery,
but when pressed they were forced to concede that nothing of a cultural,
geographical, or topographical nature suggested any locale other than
Palestine as the place of origin of the prophecy. That no place other
than Judah or Jerusalem was mentioned in chs 40–66 as the actual home of
the Judeans supported this Palestinian provenance. From the foregoing
discussion it would therefore appear that the Babylonian Exile was in
fact being predicted rather than being presupposed in chs 40–66, and
that those addressed were still living in Palestine and had not yet been
transported as captives to Babylonia.

Arguments from literary style have always been rather tenuous and highly
subjective in nature, though this fact was unfortunately not recognized
by the members of the Graf-Wellhausen school. Curiously enough, the
adherents of this approach to OT study saw no inconsistency whatever in
investigating material ascribed to some biblical author, and then
denying to his literary activity certain parts of the corpus simply
because the literary form and vocabulary of each chapter did not happen
to correspond in minute detail. Conservative scholars were not slow to
point out the anomalies involved, and this, along with the much wider
knowledge of ancient Near Eastern languages that scholars now possess,
has resulted in far less reliance being placed upon this form of
argument than was the case previously. It is now conceded openly that
arguments based on style can prove to be extremely precarious in nature,
and not infrequently to be resting upon a complete misunderstanding of
the literary situation, as the following example will show. Liberal
scholars have commonly argued that, because a Mesopotamian literary
idiom occurs in Isa. 45:7, an exilic date and a Babylonian provenance
must obviously be indicated for the chapter in question, and by
implication, for chs 40–55 at the least. The idiom referred to is known
to modern scholars as *merismus*, in which antonyms used in pairs are
employed to designate the totality of a given situation. This particular
form originated with the Sumerians, and is one of the oldest literary
idioms known. At an early period its usage diffused northward into the
subsequent Babylonian culture, and westward into the language and
thought of Egypt. On prima facie grounds, the incidence of *merismus* in
Isa. 45:7 could equally well imply an Egyptian or a Mesopotamian origin
for the material. Yet because purely speculative considerations demanded
for liberal scholars a Babylonian provenance, the possibility that the
chapter could have come (at least on the grounds of this particular
piece of linguistic evidence) from Egypt was never even considered, let
alone dismissed. If the incidence of *merismus* were to be in fact the
deciding criterion, however, the very first chapter of the prophecy
would have to be attributed to someone other than Isaiah ben Amoz, and
to a period other than the 8th cent b.c., since the second verse
contains an obvious *merismus* (“heavens … earth”). Yet not even the
most radical literary critic has been presumptuous enough to make this
suggestion. Obviously Isaiah’s use of *merismus*, which of course is not
restricted to the two verses mentioned above, cannot possibly determine
the date of any section of any composition, prophetic or otherwise.
Certain *merismus* expressions do have another extremely important
function in the prophecy of Isaiah, the significance of which will be
examined subsequently.

Even with the information that was then at their disposal,
nineteenth-century scholars were clearly wrong in suggesting the kind of
wide stylistic divergences that they did, because a close study of the
prophecy shows that chs 1–39 and 40–66 have close verbal agreement in
specific instances. For example, emphatic reduplication occurs in 2:7,
8; 6:3; 8:9; 24:16, 23; 40:1; 43:11, 25; 48:15; 51:12; 57:19; and 62:10.
The agonies of a woman in labor are mentioned in 13:8; 21:3; 26:17, 18;
42:14; 54:1; 66:7, while the position occupied by Zion in the prophet’s
thoughts can be seen in 2:3; 4:4; 18:7; 24:23; 28:16; 29:8; 30:19; 31:9;
33:5, 20; 34:8; 46:13; 49:14; 51:3; 16; 52:1; 59:20; 60:14; 62:1, 11;
66:8. It is rather interesting from a stylistic standpoint that the
expression “the mouth of the Lord has spoken” should occur in 1:20;
40:5; 58:14, and be found nowhere else to the OT, and that the phrase
translated “running with water” (30:25) and “flowing streams” (44:4)
should not be found anywhere else in the Hebrew scriptures.

An examination of the foregoing shows that so far from diverging midway
through the extant prophecy, the literary style of the book exhibits an
amazing consistency. It also makes clear that Isaiah’s literary style
differed significantly from that of every other OT prophet, and in
particular shows that it diverged widely from that employed by Ezekiel
and the postexilic prophets.

The same considerations hold good for the theological differences
alleged for chs 1–39 and 40–66. In this connection notice should be
taken of a characteristic name for God, “the Holy One of Israel.” It
occurs twenty-six times in the prophecy, and only six times elsewhere in
the OT, one of which is in a parallel passage in Kings (2 K. 19:22; cf.
Ps. 71:22; 78:41; 89:18 [MT 19]; Jer. 50:29; 51:5). This unique
description unifies the various sections in which it appears, and stamps
them with the personal imprimatur of the one who saw the vision of the
most high God seated on His throne, and heard the angelic choir singing
His praise and glory (6:3). Against the unproven assertion that the two
supposed divisions of the prophecy exhibit substantial theological
differences, the presence of this concept of God as the Holy One of
Israel is a strong argument for the theological unity of the work,
distributed as it is twelve times in chs 1–39 (1:4; 5:19, 24; 10:20;
12:6; 17:7; 29:19; 30:11f, 15; 31:1; 37:23) and thirteen times in chs
40–66 (41:14, 16, 20; 43:3, 14; 45:11; 47:4; 48:17; 49:7; 54:5; 55:5;
60:9, 14). Such an even and consistent distribution would have been
impossible had the prophecy as a whole arisen from such diverse
historical circumstances as the liberal critics claimed. Another concept
which occurs with some frequency in the prophecy is that of a highway
(11:16; 35:8; 40:3; 43:19; 49:11; 57:14; 62:10). References to the
temple and its worship also presuppose a uniform preexilic Palestinian
milieu throughout. Thus 1:11–15 reflects a situation when all was
flourishing in the land, whereas the attack of Sennacherib has brought
about different conditions in 43:23f In 66:1–3, 6, 20, not only is the
existence of the temple and its ritual presupposed, but the prophet is
active in condemning those very features that were to occupy Jeremiah’s
thoughts so much in the following century.

One of the most important unifying theological concepts has to do with
the strictures of Isaiah concerning idolatry. Such references,
especially as they occur in chs 40–66, present a uniform picture of
preexilic veneration of Canaanite deities and indulgence in the sensual
rituals now illustrated by archeological discoveries at Ugarit (Râs
Shamrah). Critical scholars have failed to observe that, apart from the
description of Babylonian idolatry in 47:13, all other references to
such practices in chs 40–66 are specifically to the preexilic Canaanite
variety mentioned in 1:13, 29; 2:8; 8:19, and elsewhere. Such allusions
in later chapters of the extant prophecy include 40:19; 41:7, 29; 42:17;
44:9, 25; 45:16; 46:6f; 48:5; 57:5f; 66:3, 17. Of the preceding, it is
impossible to interpret 44:9, 25 and 57:5 in any terms other than those
of the familiar preexilic Canaanite idolatry. If this material had in
fact come from the Exile and had been written by an unknown prophet, it
is most strange that the author was so actively concerned with something
that was meaningless to his compatriots in Babylonia, and which in fact,
both socially and religiously, was a completely dead issue. But since
the ancient Hebrew prophets were not given to answering questions that
their hearers were not asking, it can only be concluded that those who
interpret the material of chs 40–66 in terms of an exilic or postexilic
standpoint are construing incorrectly such evidence as they purport to
possess. There can be no doubt that, in reality, the social and
religious background of the content of chs 40–66 is that of the
preexilic period, as Kissane showed so competently (E. J. Kissane, *Book
of Isaiah* [1943], II, xlvi ff). If nineteenth-century literary critics
had made an honest attempt to relate chs 40–66 to Hebrew history, it
would have become clear to them immediately that certain portions of
that section could not be relegated to any point within the exilic
period. Thus in 40:9 the stronghold of Zion and the cities of Judah are
still in existence, a situation vastly different from the known
conditions at the time of the Exile. Again, in 62:6 the walls of
Jerusalem were mentioned explicitly in a context of well-being and
prosperity, and it is impossible to interpret this state of affairs
either in terms of the Exile or the early postexilic period. By
contrast, against an obvious background of eighth-century-b.c. life in
the southern kingdom, Isaiah regards the Exile as an already
accomplished fact, as in 1:7–9; 5:13; and 14:1–4. Theology, religion,
and history thus combine to emphasize the unity of background and
provenance of the extant work.

The later chapters of the prophecy of Isaiah have a far greater degree
of consonance with the statements of the eighth-century b.c. prophets
about current religious and moral conditions than most liberal critics
have been prepared to concede. Such reflections can be seen in 44:23f;
45:8; 50:1; 55:12f; 56:1; 57:1; 59:3; 61:8; 63:3–5. Especially striking
are the similarities between the doctrines of Isa. 40–66 and the
teachings of Micah. The following resemblances should be noted: Isa.
41:15f and Mic. 4:13; Isa. 47:2f and Mic. 1:11; Isa. 48:2 and Mic. 3:11;
Isa. 49:23 and Mic. 7:17; Isa. 52:12 and Mic. 2:13; Isa. 58:1 and Mic.
3:8. Quite obviously the same confident expectation of the future under
God’s providence, the same overall conception of the ancient Near
Eastern nations, and the joyous hope that a remnant would return from
exile to perpetuate the ancestral faith, were characteristic of both
prophets.

Conservative scholars generally answered the arguments relating to
supposed differences in theological standpoint and perspective by
demonstrating that the concepts elaborated in later sections of the
prophecy were broader and more extended in scope than their counterparts
in chs 1–39. Thus the messiah, who had been described in earlier parts
of the prophecy in terms of a king who would be of Davidic stock, was
subsequently thought of as the Servant of the Lord. But even here the
mention of David in 55:3 makes it evident that the earlier concept of a
royal Davidic descendant had not by any means been abandoned in favor of
the servant ideal. As will be shown subsequently, the extant prophecy
exhibits a remarkable parallelism of both structure and thought so that
specific theological emphases occur in a context that makes it extremely
difficult to argue against the integrity of the work and an
eighth-century-b.c. Palestinian provenance. There is no evidence for the
assertion that in chs 1–39 the remnant comprised the faithful left
behind in Jerusalem, but in chs 40–66 it was understood as the exiled
group of Judeans preparing to return to Palestine. As observed above, it
is impossible to show that any locale other than Judean soil was the
place from which chs 40–66 emerged. The topography, the references to
Canaanite idolatry, and the significance of the temple and the house of
David all point to a distinctively Palestinian background and refute any
suggestion of a Babylonian provenance.

One other strong argument against a divided authorship should be noted
in passing, and this has to do with the predictive element in the
prophecy. Prediction was of the essence of prophetic activity (cf. Dt.
18:22), and Isaiah was particularly gifted in this direction. Without
any warning he repeatedly leaped from despair to hope, from threat to
promise, and from the actual to the ideal. While he spoke of his own
age, of course, he also addressed himself to the days that would follow,
as shown by the fact that his verb tenses are typically futures and
prophetic perfects. The following historical situations in the prophecy
are worthy of note. Before the Syro-Ephraimitic war (734 b.c.), he
predicted that within sixty-five years Ephraim should be broken to
pieces (7:8); and that before the child Maher-shalal-hashbaz should have
knowledge to cry, “My father,” or “My mother,” the riches of Damascus
and the spoil of Samaria should be carried away (8:4; cf. 7:16). These
are, however, but two of numerous predictions, as shown above, among his
earlier prophecies (cf. 1:27f; 2:2–4; 6:13; 10:20–23; 11:6–16; 17:14).
Shortly before the downfall of Samaria in 722 b.c. Isaiah predicted that
Tyre should be forgotten seventy years, and that after the end of
seventy years its merchandise should be dedicated to the Lord (23:15,
18). In like manner, prior to the siege of Ashdod in 711 b.c., he
proclaimed that within three years Moab should be brought into contempt
(16:14), and that within a year all the glory of Kedar should fail
(21:16). And not long prior to the siege of Jerusalem by Sennacherib in
701 b.c. he predicted that in an instant, suddenly, a multitude of
Jerusalem’s foes should be as dust (29:5); that yet a very little while
and Lebanon should be turned into a fruitful field (29:17); and that
Assyria should be dismayed and fall by the sword, but not of men (30:17,
31; 31:8). And more, that for days beyond a year, the careless women of
Jerusalem should be troubled (32:10, 16–20); and that the righteous in
Zion should see Jerusalem a quiet habitation, and return and come with
singing (33:17ff; 35:4, 10); but that Sennacherib, on the contrary,
should hear tidings and return without shooting an arrow into the city
(37:7, 26–29, 33–35).

In like manner, *after* the siege of Jerusalem by Sennacherib in 701
b.c. was over, the prophet seems to have continued to predict; and, in
order to demonstrate to the suffering and unbelieving remnant about him
the deity of the Lord and the folly of idolatry, pointed to the
predictions which he had already made in the earlier years of his
ministry, and to the fact that they had been fulfilled. These references
include 41:21–23, 26; 42:9, 23; 43:9, 12; 44:7f, 27f; 45:3f, 11, 13;
46:10f; 48:3, 5; 48:6–8, 14–16. There can be no doubt that these
predictions are as consistent throughout the extant prophecy as they are
explicit and emphatic.

**D. The Prophecy as an Anthology**As W. F. Albright pointed out (FSAC,
p. 275), scholars are becoming increasingly aware that most OT
prophecies are really anthologies of oracular and sermonic material,
since their contents are seldom in chronological order. The Hebrew
prophets did not set out to elaborate a system of theology in their
teachings, but instead spoke the divine word as they received it in
spiritual fellowship with God. They addressed themselves to the needs of
their age, and were infinitely more concerned about speaking to the
contemporary situation than in correlating specific utterances to a
given phase or epoch of history, in the manner that a chronicler might
have done. Thus it is not surprising, even in fairly short prophecies,
to encounter chronologically different sections in juxtaposition. It
would seem that, in most instances, the aim of the written prophecy was
to afford permanence for the spoken word in that and subsequent
generations, mindful of the fact that, in the ancient Near East,
anything of importance was committed to writing either when it happened
or shortly afterward.

By definition, an anthology of written work can, and most frequently
does, emerge from an extended period of the author’s literary activity,
and thus can be expected not only to reflect specific differences of
literary style, but an equal diversity of social, historical, or
religious circumstances, many of which would have prompted the
composition of various items of the collection in the first instance.
Again, an anthology normally comprises selections from the author’s
works, where a single individual is involved, and not his entire
production of literature. While some of the Minor Prophets may have
written or spoken little else beyond what is attributed to them in
extant works, major writers such as Jeremiah or Isaiah probably produced
far more than has actually survived. Certainly it is correct to regard
Isaiah as an anthology in the sense described above because of the
evidence furnished by the superscription of 1:1. This verse comprises a
heading for the prophecy and speaks specifically of the revelatory
material received by Isaiah in visions in the reigns of Uzziah, Jotham,
Ahaz, and Hezekiah. The nature of the prophecy as an anthology is
further indicated by the presence of superscriptions in 2:1 and 13:1;
these may well have pointed to the presence of earlier collections of
prophetic pronouncements.

Although Isaiah may be regarded properly as an anthology, it must not be
imagined that the book is a rather arbitrary selection of discourses
compiled haphazardly. That the work received its extant form from the
specific application of a special type of literary structure familiar to
the ancient Near Eastern peoples will be made evident below. For the
moment it should be noted that the extant composition manifests a
certain degree of chronological order as it stands. In chs 1–39, the
utterances in chs 2–5 seem to have emerged from the earliest stages of
Isaiah’s ministry, while 7:1–9:7 probably came from a period about 734
b.c., during the Syro-Ephraimite conflict. While some doubt remains, it
may well be that chs 18–20 were the product of the period between 715
and 711 b.c. The historical material of chs 36–39, which varies only
slightly from 2 K. 18:13–20:19, has been held to be later than Isaiah
since it mentioned Sennacherib’s death (681 b.c.). This would be later
than Isaiah unless he survived to the early years of Manasseh
(687/6–642/1 b.c.), as Jewish tradition has long maintained. It may be
that this historical material was arranged by the disciples of Isaiah
after his death. It is exceedingly difficult, however, to maintain as
liberal scholars have done that chs 36–39, in which Isaiah himself
played such an important part, were in fact extraneous and specifically
non-Isaianic in origin. There seem to be good grounds for thinking that
this material comprised an Isaiah source upon which the compiler of
Kings drew. The existence of a separate Isaianic source dealing with the
life of Hezekiah appears to be indicated by 2 Ch. 32:32, which suggests
that the excerpt from the Book of the Kings of Israel and Judah might
have been taken from the vision of Isaiah. Furthermore, that the song of
Hezekiah (Isa. 38:9–20) occurred in the prophecy but not in the section
in Kings indicates that the editor of the latter apparently thought the
material unsuitable for his purposes. That the preservation of strict
chronological sequences was not the overriding concern of the author is
plain from Isa. 9:8–21, which may well comprise the earliest
pronouncements of Isaiah. Again, the utterances concerning Damascus
(17:1–14) may be dated somewhat before 735 b.c., a period that is
probably very close to the events narrated in ch 7.

Evidence of some sort of chronological arrangement appears in chs 40–55,
which predict the return from Exile and the time of restoration of
national life. These include sections dealing with the work of Cyrus
(41–45), predictions concerning the downfall of Babylon (46–47), and
utterances describing the glories of the new Jerusalem (49–54). Nor
should one ignore the suggestion that the compiler(s) arranged the
material of chs 56–66 in a way that presented in alternate form
prophecies whose standpoints were preexilic (56:1–57:12; 59:1–60:22;
62:1–63:19; 65:1–25) and exilic (58:1–14; 61:1–11; 64:1–12; 66:1–14),
with 57:14–21 and 66:15–24 perhaps comprising fragments of such oracles.

Another suggestion regarding the manner in which the Isaianic anthology
was compiled relates to the arrangement of material according to subject
matter. Some scholars have seen the opening chapters (1–35) as a series
of oracles emerging from Isaiah’s contemporary situation, followed by a
section of historical material (36–39). The next group of utterances
(40–55) presupposed the Exile in Babylon, as some earlier references had
done, while the remainder of the extant prophecy (56–66) comprised a
diverse group of oracles that picked up themes already prominent in
earlier chapters. The presence of three superscriptions in the prophecy
(1:1; 2:1; 13:1) was seen as perhaps representing three separate written
compilations by Isaiah, upon which the editor(s) drew subsequently.
Although an approach of this sort partially explains the parallelism
between different portions of the book, it does so from a purely
occidental standpoint, and therefore does not offer a satisfactory
explanation of the mechanics involved in the compilation of the
prophecy. Quite clearly, then, the questions associated with the way in
which the anthology reached its present form are much more involved than
has been imagined by anyone, whether liberal or conservative, who has
been approaching this piece of oriental literature on the basis of
occidental theoretical presuppositions.

**E. Evidence from Qumrân**A new approach to the problem of the
authorship and compilation of Isaiah became possible as the result of
the recovery from Qumrân of the celebrated Dead Sea Scrolls. From Cave 1
came a complete copy of the book of Isaiah, known to scholars as
&1QIsaa;. Surprisingly well preserved, it comprised fifty-four columns
of clearly written Hebrew script inscribed on seventeen sheets of
leather that had been stitched end to end. When unrolled it measured
about 7.3 m (24 ft) in length, and was approximately 30 cm. (1 ft) in
width. The text averaged twenty-nine lines to each column, and instead
of being set out in chapter-and-verse form, as in the more modern style,
it was divided up into clearly marked sections and paragraphs. Although
the scroll had obviously been used a great deal in antiquity, the
manuscript had only ten lacunae and about one dozen small holes, a
circumstance that made restoration of the text a comparatively easy
matter. Copyists’ errors were evident in the text, as were the
corrections of such mistakes, and the work of several different hands is
apparent in a few instances in the manuscript. Aside from differences in
orthography and the use of certain consonants as vowel letters, the text
of Isaiah in &1QIsaa; was identical with that in the much later editions
of the MT.

When the scholarly world learned of the existence of an ancient Isaiah
scroll among the Qumrân writings, many hoped that at long last it would
be possible to say something of a positive nature about the number of
Isaiahs who were responsible for the extant prophecy. A photographic
edition of the scroll showed that no gap occurred between the end of ch
39 and the beginning of ch 40, as is the case in some modern
translations of the prophecy. Since ch 40 began on the bottom line of a
column, it would have been very easy for a copyist to have followed a
division in the Hebrew text if such had actually existed in the
manuscript from which he was working. But it was noticed that a break in
the text occurred at the end of ch 33, where a space of three lines
occurred before the commencement of ch 34. If at that stage of
investigation the scholars attributed any significance to this
phenomenon, it was merely to suggest that the change of authorship
occurred some six chapters earlier than the literary analysts had
supposed. Indeed, at least one nineteenth-century scholar, W. Robertson
Smith (*Prophets of Israel* [1895], p. 355) had actually raised that
possibility, but had been ignored by those who were acclaiming an
“unknown prophet of the exile” as the author of at least some of the
material from ch 40 onward.

Paul Kahle (*Die Hebraïschen Handschriften aus der Höhle* [1951], pp.
72f) was the first to comment on the incidence of a gap in the text
after ch 33; he claimed that it substantiated C. C. Torrey’s notion that
chs 34 and 35, along with chs 40–66, belonged to the activities of a
Deutero-Isaiah. Unfortunately this observation afforded no explanation
whatever of the reason why chs 36–39 came to form part of the work of
this Second Isaiah. The matter remained unresolved until W. H. Brownlee
published a treatise (*Meaning of the Qumrân Scrolls for the Bible*
[1964]) that for the first time attempted to visualize the composition
of the book from the standpoint of an ancient Near Eastern, rather than
an occidental, author. Brownlee noted that in antiquity it was not
unusual for books to be produced in two parts (cf. H. St. John
Thackeray, *Septuagint and Jewish Worship* [1923], pp. 130ff), perhaps
for convenience in handling bulky writings. Furthermore, there are good
reasons for believing that literary works of high quality were often
planned with a natural division in the middle of the composition.
Josephus obviously attributed this sort of activity to certain of the
Hebrew literary prophets in observing that Ezekiel, Daniel, and Isaiah
had left their writings behind in “books” (Ant. x.5.1; x.2.2; x.11.7).
The plural form would thus describe quite properly a work produced in
two halves, or in bifid form, to use a more modern term. In the extant
Isaiah, such a structure would encompass two sections of thirty-three
chapters each, and thus it is now possible, as Brownlee has shown, to
regard the break in the text of &1QIsaa; that occurs at the end of ch 33
as indicating that the ancient practice of bisecting an important
literary work was being followed. For Brownlee, the extant prophecy
comprised the outcome of effort by an Isaianic school, whose major
achievement was the publication in two volumes of the utterances of the
master.

Such an analysis constitutes the best attempt on the part of liberal
scholarship to come to grips with the book’s real problems, which
involve method rather than history or theology. Literary criticism in
the past has been far too subjective and speculative in nature, and has
failed to face the implications of objective data. The grave
methodological weakness of past literary criticism was that it examined
oriental literature from an occidental point of view, an error that was
compounded by the application of an overriding a priori approach. Modern
literary research will have to reexamine the problems upon which the
nineteenth-century scholars pronounced with such authority and finality,
using all of the pertinent data and applying a scientific, a posteriori
method of investigation in order to interpret correctly the significance
of the material under consideration. In the case of Isaiah, the evidence
relating to the structure of the prophecy as furnished by 1QIsaa;
indicates clearly that the extant canonical work was one of the most
elaborate and artistically constructed anthologies ever to have emerged
from the ancient Near East. Brownlee is correct in stating that it was
written as a two-volume work, and on closer examination it can be
actually seen to have been linked in series in the typical Mesopotamian
scribal fashion by means of the ancient Sumerian literary figure known
as *merismus*. This device, already described above, involved the use of
antonymic pairs to denote totality, and in the case of Isaiah such pairs
were used to comprise markers at the beginning of volumes one and two.
They occur in 1:2 (“O heavens … O earth”), introducing the first section
of the scroll, and again in 34:1 (“O nations … O peoples … the earth …
the world”), which introduces the second section of the two-part
composition.

With this kind of notation there can be no possible doubt that the
balance of sections and themes as outlined by Brownlee was deliberate
rather than accidental. The prophecy obviously was assembled in bifid
form so that each half could circulate independently if necessary, and
owing to the size of the composition there can be little question but
that this would have actually taken place. It is equally clear that this
arrangement was carefully planned, claimed a high degree of literary and
functional artistry, and was constructed in full accord with certain
accepted compilatory techniques familiar to the scribes of antiquity.
All of this the large Qumrân Isaiah scroll has now made evident.
Whatever may have been the history of independent circulation of the two
units forming the extant Isaiah, the prophecy had evidently been known
as a unity long before the copyists of the Qumrân settlement commenced
their labors.

**F. Composition and Date of Isaiah**On the basis of the foregoing
information it is possible to make a new and responsible approach to the
problems involving the compilation and date of the prophecy. Taking the
latter first, the cumulative evidence from Qumrân demands a much closer
look at the tradition of eighth-century-b.c.authorship for Isaiah. The
Qumrân fellowship is now known to have originated as a schismatic group
during or perhaps a little prior to the Maccabean period. All of its
scriptural manuscripts were copies, and not originals; thus it is
obvious that none of them could have originated in the Maccabean period,
since an adequate amount of time would not have elapsed between the
original autograph and the general acceptance of the composition as
canonical scripture. One criterion for canonical status of material in
the second and third divisions of the Hebrew canon was a comparison with
the ethos of the Mosaic Law. Because of the need for manuscripts to
circulate among both the religious authorities and the devout, a certain
interval of time between the compilation of potentially canonical
material and its final recognition as such was obviously inevitable,
even if that same material, or something approximating it, had already
been proclaimed orally.

If Burrows and others were correct in dating 1Qisaa ca 100 b.c. (cf. M.
Burrows, *Dead Sea Scrolls* [1955], p. 118), it is clear that the extant
prophecy was in its final form at least by the beginning of the 2nd cent
b.c. That it evidently came from a considerably earlier period was made
plain by Burrows: “The book of Isaiah certainly comes from a time
several centuries before the earliest date to which this manuscript can
be assigned on any grounds” (Burrows, p. 109). How early, then, was the
original bifid Isaiah set? Here again the Qumrân manuscripts throw
important light on the situation. From Cave 4 a fragmentary copy of the
Psalter (4QPsa<sup>a</sup>) dated to the 2nd cent b.c. showed
incontrovertibly that the collection of canonical Psalms had already
been fixed by the time of the Maccabees (F. M. Cross, *Ancient Library
of Qumrân and Modern Biblical Studies* [1961], p. 165). This evidence
alone has persuaded scholars to abandon the once popular concept of
“Maccabean psalms” and instead to date the latest canonical psalms, not
in the Greek period (331–65 b.c.), but in the even earlier Persian
period (539–331 b.c.). The evidence from this fragmentary copy of the
Psalter thus indicates that no part of the canonical OT was put in
written form later than 330 b.c., and in the case of Isaiah it would
seem to advance the date of composition to the middle of the Persian
period at the latest.

This factual evidence immediately challenges the critical theories
concerning the authorship of the prophecy. For one thing, it repudiates
unequivocally the view of Volz (*Jesaja* [1932], II, 200) that chs 65–66
were written after 331 b.c. For another, it demonstrates the fallacy of
the view of Kennett and others that the concept of the Suffering Servant
arose as the result of the persecution of pious Jews under Antiochus IV
Epiphanes (R. H. Kennett, *Composition of the Book of Isaiah* [1909], p.
85; OT *Essays* [1928], p. 146). In the same way, Duhm’s theory (*Das
Buch Jesaia* [1892], pp. 9f) that chs 24–27 belonged to the time of John
Hyrcanus is shown to be untenable, as is any suggestion of a Third
Isaiah or additional Isaiahs, credited from time to time with having had
a hand in writing parts of chs 50–66 (cf. J. L. McKenzie, *Second
Isaiah* [AB, 1968], pp. lxvii-lxxi). Suppositions of this kind are
entirely a product of critical speculation, without factual basis, as
the evidence from Qumrân now makes clear.

Although the theory of a Trito-lsaiah can now be dismissed without
further consideration, that which involved the so-called Second Isaiah
must be refuted on somewhat different grounds. Almost all liberal
scholars regarded the assumption of the existence of a Second Isaiah as
constituting “one of the most assured results of modern literary
criticism.” But liberal scholars have never demonstrated the existence
of this unknown prophet of the exile, and it would appear from a perusal
of writings in this area that no demonstration seems to be thought
necessary by proponents of the Second Isaiah theory, since to mention
the unknown prophet is to preclude automatically any further need to
prove his alleged existence. Liberal orthodoxy in this matter has
permeated even the otherwise admirable researches of Brownlee, as noted
above, where he supposed that the exilic prophet had arisen from the
group of Isaiah’s disciples credited with having produced the Isaianic
anthology.

This concept of an alleged exilic Second Isaiah is by far the weakest
point in Brownlee’s argument, and obviously vitiates some of his
conclusions. As in other instances, it was not examined critically by
the author because it was a fundamentally important element of orthodox
theory, inadequate though it may be. Taken at face value, the assertion
that a Second Isaiah was active during the exilic period has important
implications for history as well as literature and spirituality. It
could be held to indicate that up to 150 years after the death of the
master, members of an Isaianic school were busily perpetuating the
traditions of the prophet in what can only be described as a theological
vacuum. A vacuum indeed, because the work of Isaiah had long given place
to the lengthy and immensely significant ministry of Jeremiah and its
theology of calamity, and this in turn had been followed by the
tribulations of captivity in Babylonia and the ministry of Ezekiel as
prophet, priest, and pastor to the exiled Jewish community. In addition
there was the work of Daniel as a Jewish statesman in a heathen court,
setting for the Neo-Babylonian regime a model of Hebrew piety and
gaining such stature by his spiritual deportment and wisdom as to
succeed ultimately to membership in a triad that governed the kingdom.
Yet the work of the supposed school shows no recognition whatever of the
work or thought of Jeremiah, the witness and teachings of Ezekiel, whose
activities marked a decisive turning point in Hebrew religious life, or
the life and example of Daniel, the gifted Hebrew seer and saint.

Despite the fact that chs 40–66 afford no basis for thinking that they
were composed in Babylonia, those who have postulated the existence of
the so-called school have placed this group of Isaianic supporters in
Babylonia itself, where, if sheer historical circumstances have any
meaning at all for the situation, they could not have failed to come
into contact with other Judean exiles and their outstanding leaders. Nor
could they possibly have avoided reflecting (to some extent at least)
the teachings and traditions of Jeremiah and Ezekiel as fostered by the
deported Judeans. Furthermore, the assertions concerning the existence
of Deutero-Isaiah would have the credulous reader believe that the
Palestinian Isaianic tradition received a new lease of quite independent
life in Babylonia during the time of the Exile as the result of the work
of this unknown prophet, who added to the already existing compositions
of the deceased master in language that for beauty of expression and
literary elegance has seldom been surpassed; but that this work bore
almost no relationship to the crucial theological issues of the day as
expressed particularly in the writings of Ezekiel. Had this unknown
prophet actually had any existence other than in the fervid imaginations
of nineteenth-century European scholars, and had he in fact been
teaching and writing during the Exile, he would hardly have reflected a
preexilic Palestinian background such as occurs in chs 40–55, but would
instead have been in accord with Ezekiel and Daniel in depicting
contemporary Mesopotamian environmental, social, moral, and religious
conditions. A careful reading of chs 40–55 reveals only the most general
allusions to the coming Exile, and nothing whatever pertaining to the
details of life as it was ultimately experienced by the deported Judeans
at *Til Abūbi*, probably located near Nippur.

Perhaps the most important repudiation of the fallacy entertained by
postulating the existence of a so-called Second Isaiah is to be seen in
the ignorance that he exhibited in the matter of the theological
continuity between Jeremiah and Ezekiel with respect to the new
covenant. Jeremiah (31:31–34) had predicted a time when the older
corporate concept of covenantal relationship would be replaced by an
individual one. Ezekiel went further (18:1–24) and emphasized that the
individual in his dealings with God would have to bear personal
responsibility for his own wrongdoings. By contrast, the postulated
unknown prophet of the Exile knew nothing of the new covenant and its
spiritual implications. On two occasions where the concept of covenant
was introduced (Isa. 42:6; 49:8), it was related to the work of the
Servant as a “covenant of the people,” while Isa. 54:10 referred to it
in a general manner as “my peaceful covenant” and embraced ideas of
divine compassion. So formidable is this particular objection to the
liberal supposition of a Second Isaiah that it has almost invariably
tended to be evaded, and to date no liberal scholar has even begun to
resolve the problem posed by the relationship of the historical ministry
and writings of Ezekiel to that of the wholly hypothetical
Deutero-Isaiah. This failure is hardly surprising in the light of a
passage such as Ezk. 2:5, which suggests that there was no other prophet
living in the community who was issuing the same warnings as Ezekiel.
Again, in Ezk. 22:30, God was represented as telling the prophet that He
had looked for a man to fill the breach, but that He had found no one.
This situation would not have existed had the celebrated unknown prophet
of the Exile been living and ministering in the Judean community of
exiles at the time of Ezekiel, and by his utterances and example
bringing his dejected hearers out of despair to new heights of creative
spirituality, as is popularly supposed to have happened by those who for
so long have been advocating the existence of a Second Isaiah. Surely
under such conditions a man of his outstanding gifts would have been
ideally suited for whatever ministry God had for him to perform on
behalf of the dispirited exiles.

The evidence furnished by the book of Ezekiel, however, knows nothing of
an unknown prophet of the Exile. Any ministering that was undertaken to
the exiled community was the sole responsibility of Ezekiel, since
Daniel was functioning at an entirely different level in Babylonian
affairs; also there is no doubt that Ezekiel was a genuine historical
figure, as opposed to the imaginary Deutero-Isaiah. It would be without
parallel in Hebrew history for one of the greatest, if not the greatest
of the Hebrew prophets, to lavish on his contemporaries, at a time when
they were experiencing one of the most serious spiritual crises of their
history, some of the most exalted language and lofty spirituality in the
whole of divine revelation, and having done all this to pass so
completely from Hebrew tradition that not even his name managed to
survive. It is even more incredible to suppose that his incomparable
literary work could ever have become a mere appendix to that of a much
inferior and less renowned Palestinian prophet, however much the latter
might have commended himself to the former, and that for two millennia
his writings should have been uniformly regarded by Jewish tradition as
comprising the work of this inferior prophet. Liberal scholarship has
yet to establish the degree of probability by which sections of
literature emerging from a later period should have become intermingled
with the writings of Isaiah ben Amoz by an inexperienced or incompetent
editor in such a way that it has become virtually impossible for anyone
to extract the work of the eighth-century b.c. prophet and arrange it in
something like chronological order. Were any further objection needed,
it can only be regarded as totally incredible that the Jews, with their
almost superstitious veneration of sacred Scripture, could ever have
permitted it to be mutilated in such a manner.

If this supposedly unknown individual is to be regarded as anything
other than an imaginative creation of nineteenth-century critical
scholarship, it will be mandatory for his place in the history of Hebrew
thought and religious institutions to be established firmly. As noted
above, however, he was evidently totally unknown to both Ezekiel and
Daniel, despite the outstanding talents and abilities credited to him.
In the postexilic period, neither his name nor his teachings seem to
have exerted the slightest influence over Haggai and Zechariah on the
one hand, or over Ezra and Nehemiah on the other. By contrast, however,
it is known that the thought of Ezekiel exercised a profound effect upon
both temple and synagogue worship in the postexilic theocracy. In the
same way it was the wholehearted application of the law of Moses, not
the teachings of an unknown prophet of the Exile, that furnished Judaism
with its characteristic stamp of legalism. The preoccupations of
Deutero-Isaiah with the kind of idolatry typical of preexilic Canaan
would have been as out of place in Babylonia, where the conditions for
indulgence in Canaanite religious rites simply did not exist, as they
would have been in the postexilic theocracy, if only because the Exile
had made Canaanite Baal worship a completely dead issue.

That the Jews of the exilic or postexilic periods never had a tradition
of a Second Isaiah or a Third Isaiah makes the supposition of his (or
their) existence not merely hypothetical but extremely suspect. On
purely objective grounds no evidence supports the contention of liberal
scholars that there was more than one author of the extant prophecy. As
with the Pentateuch, the liberal studies of the book of Isaiah are
littered with undemonstrated assumptions, tendentious arguments, and
unwarranted conclusions for which there is no factual evidence, and this
despite the confidence with which they were promulgated. It is because
such research was so far removed from accredited scientific method that
it will need to be undertaken afresh, this time against a background of
a posteriori scientific method and the full use of all objective data,
before credible conclusions can be reached.

On the basis of the foregoing survey of hypotheses concerning the
authorship of Isaiah, the present writer can only reject in all honesty
any hypothesis adduced in favor of establishing the existence of a
Second or Third Isaiah on the ground that such a hypothesis has been
shown to be totally lacking in anything that the modern scientific
approach would recognize as evidence. It seems difficult to avoid the
further conclusion that Second and Third Isaiahs constitute some of the
most successful myths ever foisted upon a gullible scholarly world by
nineteenth-century liberal thinkers. In view of the data presented by
1Qisaa, it appears that the prophecy was the work of the one attributive
author, Isaiah ben Amoz, with some possibility of assistance from his
disciples. It seem to have been compiled as an anthology of this
Isaiah’s writings, and may well have been circulated in bifid form from
the very beginning of its literary history. Its sophisticated and
artistic structure would make it highly probable that the master prophet
himself played a large part in shaping the final form of the work. In
that event it appears likely that the prophecy was closely approaching
its extant state within fifty years after the death of the prophet, and
thus may be assigned with reasonable confidence to a date ca 630 b.c.

**G. Servant Oracles**Few subjects have evoked more discussion in OT
theology than the problems raised by the passages relating to the work
of the Servant of the Lord. As already noted, the servant passages have
generally been held to comprise, as a minimum, 42:1–4; 49:1–6; 50:4–9 or
50:1–11; and 52:13–53:12. For the first three centuries of its existence
the Church identified the Servant with the righteous, sometimes on an
individual basis but at other times on a collective basis. This was then
replaced by a general messianic interpretation, which lasted until the
19th century. For liberal scholars such as Semler, Koppe, and Eichhorn,
the messiah was no longer to be regarded as a scion of the house of
David, but rather as a picture of the entire nation of Israel. Under
Vatke and Ewald this view was basic to the expectation that the
spiritual Israel would somehow be the means of restoring the moribund
physical Israel. Though others such as Cheyne, A. B. Davidson, and S. R.
Driver took up this view with enthusiasm, they failed to show how an
ideal Israel could suffer and die vicariously or representatively in
order to redeem the actual nation. A variation of this theory envisaged
the Servant as the faithful minority within the larger corpus of
unrepentant Israel. This involved one portion of the nation dying to
atone for and redeem the rest of the people, but the theory simply did
not match the known historical facts when it was transferred to the
exilic situation as depicted in Ezekiel and Daniel. Other equally
unsuccessful attempts to identify the Servant related him in some way to
the prophetic order, or to some specific individual such as Hezekiah,
Isaiah, or Jeremiah. Delitzsch (p. 236) suggested that at its lowest
level the servant concept was rooted in the entire nation of Israel. In
a more developed form it was concerned with a spiritual rather than with
a physical Israel, and at the highest level it represented the personage
of the Redeemer-Messiah.

The view that the Servant was in fact Second Isaiah was advanced by S.
Mowinckel (*Der Knecht Jahwäs* [1921]) as a reaction against the
collective interpretation favored by many liberal scholars. He held that
in material contiguous to the oracles, the Servant was the actual
nation, whereas in the oracles themselves the missionary vocation of the
Servant indicated his individuality. This theory ran into trouble in
connection with the fourth oracle (52:13–53:12), to say nothing of all
the problems associated with the assumption that there actually was such
a person as the unknown prophet of the Exile, as noted above. Mowinckel
subsequently modified his position (cf. *He That Cometh* [1956], pp.
228f) by stating that the Servant had been killed before the completion
of the oracles, which had been assembled by the disciples of
Deutero-lsaiah (ZAW, 49 [1931], 87ff, 242ff).

Another Scandinavian scholar, Nyberg, thought of the Servant as a
supra-individual personage belonging alike to the past, present, and
future (*Svensk Exegetisk Årsbok*, 7 [1942], pp. 5ff). Not merely did
this concept thus enshrine the best of all possible worlds, but it also
drew upon religious and mythological elements from other beliefs. This
latter element reflected to some extent the mythological view of the
Servant espoused by Gressmann and Gunkel (cf. H. Gressmann, *Der
Ursprung der israelitisch-jüdischen Eschatologie* [1905]; H. Gunkel, RGG
[1912], III, cols 1540ff), a theory which encountered lasting
difficulties because of its inability to demonstrate a positive link
between the nature myths and the biblical sources.

The problems that scholars had to confront are immediately evident upon
reading the oracles themselves. The personage of the Servant and the
scope of his work make possible the simultaneous recognition of
individual, collective, actual, and ideal elements. If a purely
collective interpretation is advanced, it immediately faces the fact
that the Servant of Isaiah is very different in character from Israel as
depicted in the OT. Since the description of the Servant was most
probably never intended to be the portrait of any specific individual,
attempted identifications with known historical figures such as Uzziah,
Jeremiah, or Cyrus can only be regarded as highly speculative at the
best. The same conclusion must be leveled against the kind of messianic
interpretation that saw the Servant in the role of some preexilic king
who was thought to have undergone certain ritual punishments as part of
an annual “enthronement liturgy.” Redemption and atonement ceremonies
were matters for the priests, not the preexilic kings, and in any event
there is absolutely no factual evidence produced to date that could be
cited in support of an annual enthronement ceremony in Israel such as
was represented by the Babylonian *akîtu* rituals.

Certain scholars have felt that those who were satisfied with the
classical liberal delineation of the servant oracles took a rather
restricted view of the available textual material. Thus Brownlee (pp.
193ff) suggested that additional servant songs can be found in Isa.
51:4–6, or perhaps 1–8; 61:1ff, and 62:10–12. Similarly, Harrison
(*intro to the OT* [1969], p. 797) has pointed out that, probably
because of liberal preoccupations with theories of divided authorship, a
prose oracle in the earlier chapters has been overlooked completely.
Occurring in 22:20–25, it described the function of the divine servant,
whose name was given as Eliakim, son of Hilkiah. He would have authority
over Jerusalem and the house of Judah, but ultimately he would be
removed from office and his powers would disappear. This oracle is of
some interest historically because archeologists have found both at Tell
Beit Mirsim and Bethshemesh three stamped jar handles of the 6th cent
b.c. inscribed, “belonging to Eliakim, attendant of Yaukin [Jehoiachin]”
(cf. 2 K. 18:18, 26, 37 par Isa. 36:3, 11, 22; cf. also 37:2).

Of the various identifications proposed for the Servant, the one that
seems to suit all the data most adequately is the traditional messianic
approach. In its overall construction the picture of the divine Servant
is sufficiently fluid to admit of differences between the Servant and
Christ the Messiah. It needs to be remembered that the Servant is not
the only messianic figure in Isaiah, but this impression has been
conveyed by an entirely unwarranted and arbitrary dissection of the
prophecy into portions alleged by the literary critics to have come from
widely separated historical periods. It is extremely difficult to
believe that Isaiah was not aware, at least in part, of the historical
and spiritual significance of the servant oracles, even though his
eighth-century-b.c. contemporaries may have been so immersed in pagan
ways as to have remained completely indifferent to any meaning,
eschatological or otherwise, that the material may have had. Certainly
there were those in the time of Christ who were unable to interpret such
passages in terms of His status as Messiah. C. R. North is undoubtedly
correct in stating that, regardless of the original of the Servant,
Christ alone furnished its fulfillment (IDB, IV, 294).

*H. Cyrus*The appearance of this renowned Persian ruler’s name in Isa.
44:28 and 45:1 has supplied many liberal scholars with what they
regarded as valid reason for attributing chs 40–55 to the exilic period
and a specific Babylonian background. The problems posed by the
incidence of the name of Cyrus (539–530 b.c.) have been met by
conservative scholars in three principal ways. The first has been to
reject the liberal view of an exilic date for the material as being
based on a disregard for a genuinely predictive element in OT prophecy,
and to assert that, in any event, Cyrus was represented by Isaiah as the
subject of prediction. This latter element of the argument, which
obviously would preclude anything later than an early exilic date, was
even accepted by some liberal scholars, e.g., G. A. Smith (HDB, II,
493). The second approach to the problem, adopted by some modern
conservative scholars such as Allis (*Unity of Isaiah* [1950], pp. 51ff)
and Young (*intro to the OT* [2nd ed 1960], pp. 237f), has been to see
the references as comprising prophetic previsions of the work of Cyrus
that occurred 150 years later. Allis accepted somewhat uncritically the
view of Josephus (*Ant.* xi.1.1) that Cyrus, having read of his destiny
in Isaiah, made serious attempts to fulfil all that had been written
about him. Young and Allis, however, insisted upon the predictive
element in OT prophecy, and thus saw Cyrus as the subject of foretelling
by Isaiah.

A third way of viewing the references to Cyrus has been to see them as
explanatory glosses, inserted by a post-exilic copyist who may well have
felt that Cyrus was discharging the functions of the Servant about whom
Isaiah had spoken. The references in 44:28 and 45:1 are actually the
only places in the prophecy where Cyrus was mentioned by name, and if
the word *l*<sup>*e*</sup>*ḵôreš* (“of Cyrus”) is removed from the
Hebrew text, it not only makes for greater smoothness in the verses
involved, but focuses attention upon Jerusalem and gives promise of
future restoration and glory, in consonance with other sections of chs
40–66. C. C. Torrey (*Second Isaiah: A New Interpretation* [1928], pp.
vii–viii) was one of the first scholars to recognize the possibility
that the references to Cyrus were later glosses by maintaining that if
the few direct and indirect allusions to him could be eliminated, almost
all of chs 40–66 could be relegated to a Palestinian origin. The
suggestion that *l*<sup>*e*</sup>*ḵôreš* has been miscopied from
*ḥōreš*, “workman,” is improbable, if only as a totally inadequate
description of the “anointed one” of 45:1.

***Bibliography.***—*Commentaries:* Among the early church fathers,
Eusebius, Basil the Great, Chrysostom, Theodoret, Procopius of Gaza,
Ephraim Syrus, and Jerome wrote comments on parts or the whole of the
prophecy. Among the Jewish expositors Ibn Ezra, David Kimchi, Abarbanel,
and the Tanchum Jerushalmi should be noted. Of the Reformers see comms
by both Luther and Calvin. The work of Campegius Vitringa (1732) is
particularly valuable. Among the later commentaries on the entire
prophecy may be mentioned E. F. Rosenmuller’s *Scholia* (1826); Wilhelm
Gesenius’ *Jesaja* (1821); J. A. Alexander (1865); Moritz Drechsler
(1845), completed by Hahn and Delitzsch; S. D. Luzzatto (1855); Franz
Delitzsch (repr 1949); G. A. Smith (1888–90); Bernhard Duhm (1892); A.
Dillmann (rev ed 1898); G. H. Box (1908); J. Ridderbos (1922); F.
Feldmann (1925–26); J. Fischer (1939); E. J. Kissane (1941–43); A.
Bentzen (1944); A. Penna (1958); I. W. Slotki (*Soncino,* 1959); E. J.
Young (1961); V. Buksbazen (1971–74).

Commentaries on Chs. 1–39: G. B. Gray (ICC, 1912); O. Procksch (KAT,
1930); R. B. Y. Scott (IB, 1956); J. Mauchline (1962): A. S. Herbert
(1973): O. Kaiser (OTL, 1973).

Commentaries on Chs. 40–55 or 40–66: R. Levy (1925); C. C. Torrey
(1928); P. Volz (1932): J. Muilenburg (IB, 1956); C. R. North (1964); J.
L. McKenzie (AB, 1968); C. Westermann (OTL, 1969).

*Standard Introductions* (some obsolete): S. R. Driver (9th ed 1913); R.
H. Pfeiffer (1941); W. O. E. Oesterley and T. H. Robinson (3rd ed 1958);
A. Weiser (5th ed 1963); A. Bentzen (1952); O. Eissfeldt (Engtr 1965);
E. J. Young (2nd ed 1960); G. L. Archer (1964); R. K. Harrison (1969);
B. S. Childs (1979).

*Special Studies:* H. Gunkel, *Ein Vorläufer Jesu* (1921); S. Mowinckel,
*Der Knecht Jahwäs* (1921); J. Fischer, *Wer ist Ebed?* (1922); L.
Ko¬hler, *Deuterojesaja (Jesaja xl–lv) stilkritisch untersucht* (BZAW,
37, 1923); J. Begrich, *Der Psalm des Hiskia* (1926); A. Boutflower,
*Book of Isaiah in the Light of Assyrian Monuments* (1930); K. Elliger,
*Deuterojesaja in seinem Verhältnis zu Tritojesaja* (*Beiträge zur
Wissenschaft vom* AT, 4, 1933); L. Glahn and L. Köhler, *Der Prophet der
Heimkehr* (1934); J. Lindblom, *Die Jesaja-Apokalypse* (1938); W. A.
Wordsworth, *En Roeh* (1939); S. Smith, *Isaiah Chapters xl–xv: Literary
Criticism and History* (1944); O. T. Allis, *Unity of Isaiah* (1951); E.
S. Mulder, *Die Teologie van die Jesaja-Apokalipse* (1954); E. J. Young,
*Studies in Isaiah* (1954); S. H. Blank, *Prophetic Faith in Isaiah*
(1958); S. P. Schilling, *Isaiah Speaks* (1958); E. J. Young, *Who Wrote
Isaiah?* (1958); B. S. Childs, *Isaiah and the Assyrian Crisis* (SBT,
2/3, 1967); J. W. Whedbee, *Isaiah and Wisdom* (1971); R. N. Whybray,
*The Heavenly Counsellor in Isaiah 40:13–14* (1971); W. S. LaSor,
*Israel* (1976), pp. 11–29; A. A. MacRae, *The Gospel of Isaiah* (1977).

G. L. Robinson R. K. Harrison

*From the International Standard Bible Encyclopedia*

