---
title: "Jacob"
pdf: "jacob.pdf"
description: "Jacob was an OT patriarch, son of Isaac and father of the twelve named ancestors of the tribes of Israel (from International Standard Bible Encyclopedia)."
template: topic.jade
---


**JACOB Page 12**

**Jacob [<sup>1</sup>](#sdfootnote1sym)**

**[Significance of the Name “Jacob”
2](#__RefHeading__16012_1840878105)**

**[The Life of Jacob 2](#__RefHeading__16014_1840878105)**

[Early Life in Canaan 2](#__RefHeading__16016_1840878105)

[To Paddan-aram 3](#__RefHeading__16018_1840878105)

[Return to Canaan 4](#__RefHeading__16020_1840878105)

[To Egypt 7](#__RefHeading__16022_1840878105)

**[Jacob’s Religion 9](#__RefHeading__16024_1840878105)**

[Background 9](#__RefHeading__16026_1840878105)

[Jacob’s Growth; First Crisis 9](#__RefHeading__16028_1840878105)

[Second Crisis 10](#__RefHeading__16030_1840878105)

[Third Crisis 10](#__RefHeading__16032_1840878105)

[Fourth Crisis 10](#__RefHeading__16034_1840878105)

**[Fifth Crisis and Triumph 11](#__RefHeading__16036_1840878105)**

[Israel: Man and Nation 11](#__RefHeading__16038_1840878105)

**[References Outside Genesis 11](#__RefHeading__16040_1840878105)**

[In the Old Testament 11](#__RefHeading__16042_1840878105)

[In the New Testament 12](#__RefHeading__16044_1840878105)

Jacob was an OT patriarch, son of Isaac and father of the twelve
eponymous ancestors of the tribes of Israel.

The history of Jacob’s life has been preserved in Gen. 25–50. There are
many opinions about the form and compilation of these stories (see V
below), but for the purposes of this study they will be considered as
authentic records of historical events. A century of archeological
exploration, combined with the study of documents from the period in
which the patriarchs must have lived, has shown that Genesis reflects
accurately the social conditions of the time. This information enables
parts of the biography of Jacob to be better understood. Evidence quoted
as contemporary with Jacob is taken from material of the 18th and 17th
cents b.c.

Significance of the Name “Jacob”
================================

Two other names from the same root are found in the OT, Akkub and
Jaakobah. It has long been known that a similar name was also in use in
ancient Babylonia. Further discoveries of many more contemporary
documents indicate that it is one of a large group of names borne by the
West Semites who gained control of Mesopotamia at the beginning of the
2nd millennium b.c. “Jacob-el” (*ya˓*<sup>*a*</sup>*qub–il*) occurs not
only in Babylonia (e.g., Kish and Khafadje) but also on the
mid-Euphrates at *˓Ana* and in the north at Chagar-Bazar. Several other
names with the same root are recorded from Mari and other sites.
Egyptian sources provide contemporary examples of Asiatic slaves with
Semitic names, including some formed from *˓āqaḇ*. An inscription of
Thutmose III (ca 1450 b.c.) mentions a place in Palestine named
*ya˓*<sup>*a*</sup>*qub-el*. One of the major rulers of the Hyksos
period was named *ya˓*<sup>*a*</sup>*qub-her*. At a later period such
names are found in the Palmyrene inscriptions.

The root *˓qb*, meaning “heel” is found in Arabic and Assyrian as well
as in Hebrew. From this basic noun was derived a simple verb “follow
closely,” with various nuances. In Jer. 9:4 it has the connotation of
“overtaking” (cf. 17:9; Ps. 49:6 [MT 7]). Yet it may equally have a more
favorable significance, “follow closely” and then “guard, protect,” as
in Sabean (cf. Job 37:4, “restrain”).

There can be little doubt that the name *ya˓*<sup>*a*</sup>*qub-il* had
the sense of “protection,” perhaps as a prayer uttered at the birth of
the child, “May God protect (him)” (so FSAC, p. 245). “Jacob” would be
an abbreviated form of the name. According to G. R. Driver (*Problems of
the Hebrew Verbal System* [1936]), however, *ya˓*<sup>*a*</sup>*lquḇ*
can be interpreted as a past tense as well as an imperfect (future).
“God has protected” is a plausible translation of the name, one
especially suitable if the birth had been difficult (cf. Gen. 25:22). In
Jacob’s case the circumstances of his birth were likely to give rise to
an allusive wordplay upon a current name, for he “grasped the heel” of
his brother (25:26).

The Life of Jacob
=================

“A wandering Aramean was my father” (Dt. 26:5). This is an apt
description of Jacob’s history, which may be considered in four sections
according to his place of residence.

Early Life in Canaan
--------------------

The conception of Isaac’s sons is remarkable in that it did not occur
until twenty years after his marriage to Rebekah. As Abraham had been
required to exercise faith in the promise of an heir, so was Isaac. The
peculiar nature of his birth may have given Jacob his name, but even
earlier he was designated as the chosen son through whom the promise
given to Abraham should pass. Although born in Canaan, he was racially
distinct, being the grandson of a man from Ur of the Chaldees, a Semite
among the descendants of Ham.

The relationship of Esau and Jacob, twin brothers and full-born sons of
Isaac, could not be eased by such a separation as divided Isaac and
Ishmael. Later teachings (e.g., Mal. 1:2f) show that it was by the
sovereign will of God that one was chosen over the other. The supremacy
of God over human customs was exemplified by the choice of Jacob, the
younger son. The contrast between the two brothers may be seen as the
contrast between the agriculturalist and the nomad-hunter who lives
“from hand to mouth.” These were the characteristics of the later
nations of Israel and Edom. Esau’s thoughtlessness lost him his
birthright (the privilege of the firstborn son to inherit a double share
of the paternal estate), thus allowing Jacob the material superiority.
His equally heedless marriage to local women of Hittite stock (Gen.
26:34) rendered him unsuitable to become the father of the chosen
people. Nevertheless, Isaac intended to bestow the blessing of the
firstborn upon Esau.

The oracle given to Rebekah before the birth of her sons (25:23)
probably encouraged her to counter Isaac’s will and to gain the blessing
for her favorite son by a fraud. The blessing that was given to Jacob
conveyed the status of head of the family, apparently apart from the
status of heir. Esau had disposed of this many years before, an action
comparable to the sale of a birthright recorded at Nuzi. The blessing,
once pronounced, was irrevocable; and so Jacob was sent to the safety of
Rebekah’s home until Esau should forgive him.

To Paddan-aram
--------------

Jacob was well over forty years old when he left home, for Esau had
already married at the age of forty (Gen. 26:34; 27:46). The journey
from Beersheba may be reckoned, however, as the commencement of his life
as an individual. He had received the paternal blessing, and doubtless
knew of the God who had made great promises to his father and to his
grandfather; yet it was not until he slept at Luz that he realized that
he was required to participate in the fulfillment of these promises. He
was following the road to the north along the central hills when night
fell, and he lay down with a convenient stone as his pillow. The text
does not indicate that he had arrived at a recognized shrine, although
Abraham had built an altar in that region (12:8) and archeological
evidence suggests that it was an ancient holy place (*see* Bethel
**1**). In the dream God revealed Himself to Jacob and renewed the
promise to him by His name Yahweh, the name in which the promise had
first been given. The traveler was given reassurance for his journey and
of his eventual return. The erection of a stone pillar, in this case
only a small boulder, was a common practice for the commemoration of
some notable event. For Jacob this place was henceforth sanctified as
“the gate of heaven” where God first communicated with him. It was for
him Beth-el, “the dwelling of God.”

Jacob moved northward to the “fields of Aram” (*see* Paddan-Aram). The
relatives of Bethuel were evidently prosperous citizens of Haran who
cultivated the land surrounding the town in the valley of the Jullab and
pastured their flocks on the hills. Jacob was welcomed into his mother’s
family. An agreement was made that he should give seven years of service
and then take as his wife his cousin Rachel, whom he had first met at
the well outside the town. A partially comparable transaction is known
from Nuzi, where a man entered into servitude for seven years in return
for a wife; but there the marriage probably took place at the beginning
of the time. When the day of Jacob’s marriage arrived, Rachel’s father
Laban substituted his elder daughter Leah, on the plea of a local custom
that the elder was always wed first. Perhaps the narrator knew of
another reason: Leah had “weak eyes” (Gen. 29:17), i.e., she was not
beautiful, so it might have been more difficult to find a suitable
husband for her (cf. E. Speiser, comm on Genesis [AB, 1964], p. 225).
After the week of celebration had passed, Rachel also was given to
Jacob. He had to promise another seven years of service in return. Jacob
remained in Laban’s employ for six years after he had worked out his
contract in order to earn sufficient capital for the support of his
family.

Leah bore his first four sons (Reuben, Simeon, Levi, and Judah). Rachel,
jealous of her sister since she herself was barren and eager to remove
that reproach, gave her maid Bilhah to her husband. By this means, which
was an accepted practice at the time (cf. Abraham and Hagar), any child
born would be counted as Rachel’s (note 30:3). The two sons borne by
Bilhah were named by Rachel, as if they were her own, Dan and Naphtali.
Leah then did likewise with her maid Zilpah, who bore two sons, named by
her mistress Gad and Asher. At this juncture Reuben, Leah’s firstborn
and now about twelve years old, found mandrakes, which he brought to his
mother. Rachel purchased this herb from her sister for its supposed
aphrodisiac qualities. As a result of the bargain, Leah bore two more
sons to Jacob, Issachar and Zebulun, and at some time a daughter Dinah.
Then at last Rachel gave birth to her first son Joseph.

Now Jacob pressed for permission to return to Canaan. Laban could not
afford to lose so good a herdsman and offered him any wage he cared to
name. Yet even when Jacob had suggested his reward, Laban tried to avoid
payment. The evasion was overcome by Jacob’s experience with the flocks.
He succeeded in breeding fine sheep of the type he had asked from Laban,
while his father-in-law was left with inferior stock. This prosperity
aroused the jealousy of Laban’s own sons and of Laban himself. Rachel
and Leah supported their husband when he related to them the divine
command to return to his father’s home. They claimed that their father
had not given them any dowry but had spent it instead, treating them as
foreigners.

Return to Canaan
----------------

Jacob departed while Laban and his sons were away shearing sheep in the
hills. Thereby he gained a two-day head start, and it was not until he
reached the highlands of Gilead that Laban overtook him. The seven days
indicated as the time taken by Laban’s party to cover about 650 km (400
mi) from Haran to Gilead are within the capabilities of good riding
camels (*see* Camel). Jacob, with his family and his flocks, took a
little longer. Laban complained that he had had no opportunity to bid
farewell to his daughters with the accustomed feasting. More important,
he wanted to find the “gods” that had been stolen (31:30, 32). These
“gods” (Heb *t*<sup>*e*</sup>*rāp̱îm*, 31:19, 34) were almost certainly
small metal or terra-cotta figures of deities such as are commonly found
in the ruins of ancient towns. Possession of these images was vested in
the head of the family, according to evidence from Nuzi. Certain texts
specify that they are to pass to the son of the owner upon the latter’s
decease, rather than to an adopted son, even if he has been made
principal heir. Rachel’s theft can now be seen as an attempt to obtain
for her husband the status of head of the household. Laban’s anxiety
arose partly from this consideration and partly from the loss of the
magical protection they were thought to afford. This value may well have
been in Rachel’s mind, too, as she look them with her at the outset of a
long journey. Divine command prevented Laban from using force against
Jacob, and his daughter’s ingenuity deprived him of his gods.

No fault could be found in Jacob’s conduct in Haran either. In his own
defense (31:36–42) he mentioned that he had not eaten any of Laban’s
rams and had himself replaced those animals seized by wild beasts.
Records from Nuzi describe the prosecution of shepherds who had made
their own use of their masters’ flocks. The Babylonian laws of Hammurabi
(ca 1750 b.c.) impose a fine of ten times the value of the animal taken
on a shepherd convicted of such an offense. By the same laws, however,
the loss of an animal killed by a marauding lion is to be borne not by
the herdsman but by the owner (§§ 265–67).

Laban could do little but suggest a pact of friendship with his
son-in-law. He proposed as terms of the treaty that Jacob should neither
ill-treat his wives nor marry any other women, a clause often found in
marriage records of this time. Moreover, the site of the covenant was to
be a boundary which neither party should cross with evil intent. Ancient
treaties frequently stipulate that rulers of states should not permit
raids from their territory into the neighboring country and that they
should be responsible for the punishment of any of their subjects who
did so raid. Such treaties were solemnized by the naming of various
important deities as witnesses and the deposit of a copy in a temple
(*see* Covenant [OT] II). The covenant of Jacob and Laban was ratified
solely by the invocation of the God of Abraham and of their common
ancestor Terah. If either Jacob or Laban broke the terms of the
agreement, the curse of God would fall upon him. The cairn and the
pillar were visible expressions of the treaty, reminding them of it if
ever they passed that way again. Stone slabs, simple boulders,
rough-hewn monoliths, and carefully carved stelae have been discovered
throughout the ancient Near East. Some are isolated on a hillside; some
are grouped in a shrine or temple; all originally commemorated a notable
event or person. When a treaty was to be recorded, a picture was carved,
on some occasions, representing the contracting parties sharing a meal
to indicate their unanimity and good faith, as Jacob and his kin ate
together in Gilead (31:54).

The parting from Laban marked another stage in Jacob’s development. He
was now head of his own household. He also climbed to a higher plane of
spiritual experience. An encounter with angels at Mahanaim impressed
upon him the might of the God who protected him, encouraging him for the
journey southward to meet Esau. His brother’s seemingly hostile advance
prompted a call for clear evidence of God’s guarding. Shrewdly, he sent
a handsome gift to his brother and strategically divided his retinue
into two parts; so large had his following become that each would be
able to defend itself, or to escape if the other was captured. When all
had crossed the stream of the Jabbok, Jacob was hindered by a stranger.
The two struggled without one gaining advantage on the other, until the
adversary dislocated Jacob’s hip. The disabled man still refused to
release his antagonist, but, clinging to him, demanded his blessing.
This could not be given until the stranger knew Jacob’s name. By telling
it, Jacob acknowledged his defeat. His opponent, himself incognito,
could command him as an individual. He emphasized his superiority by
renaming the patriarch. No longer was he the man whose name had an
unfavorable connotation. He became Israel, the one on whose behalf “God
strove” or “God strives” and with whom “God strove.” The withholding of
the adversary’s name, perhaps, caused Jacob to realize whom he had met.
So Jacob called the place Peniel (Heb *p*<sup>*e*</sup>*nî˒ēl*, “face of
God”), “For I have seen God face to face, and yet my life is preserved”
(32:30 [MT 31]).

![](data:image/png;base64,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)

A ford in the Jabbok River near the traditional scene of Jacob’s
wrestling with the angel (W. S. LaSor)

Jacob’s fear of meeting his brother proved groundless. Esau was content
to forget the wrongs of the past and to share his life with his brother.
The juncture of their two households would bring them greater security
and standing among the alien peoples around them. As two men of so
contrary natures were unlikely to live together long in harmony, Jacob
chose the better course in turning westward, leaving the road to Edom.

Succoth was the first halting place before the Jordan was crossed. The
length of his stay there is not indicated. It may be that the cattle
were breeding and it was necessary to stop and provide shelter (the
“booths”) for them.

Now Jacob entered the Promised Land. It was a natural course for him to
follow the valley of the *Wâdī Fâr˓ah*, which joins the Jordan almost
opposite Succoth, and so penetrate into the hill country. In Canaan the
patriarch was landless, a wanderer, the type of person called *Ḫabiru*,
or *˓Apiru*, in ancient texts (*see* Habiru). He traveled until he
reached a place of good pasture where he might settle for a time. The
town of Shechem was well established in the center of the area, and it
was from the rulers of this place that Jacob purchased a plot of land on
which he pitched his tent and built an altar. Inevitably the family
chosen by God was brought into contact with the local population, of
which the ruling class at least were apparently of non-Semitic, Hurrian
stock (*see* Hurrians). The son of the city’s ruler was attracted to
Jacob’s daughter and took her by force. Although the prince, Shechem,
afterward made an honorable proposal of marriage, this act alone could
not restore amity between the clans. Jacob’s sons demanded that the
Shechemites be circumcised before intermarriage could be permitted. The
narrator comments that the brothers “replied deceitfully” (34:13);
therefore it may be supposed that they understood that more than a
physical sign was required to distinguish the inheritors of the promise
from their neighbors. The leading citizens of Shechem all followed their
lord in submitting to circumcision, motivated, no doubt, by the
possibility of absorbing the “Hebrews” and adding their property to
their own. While recovering from this surgery, they were incapable of
defending themselves against Simeon and Levi, who killed them to avenge
their sister. This treacherous deed, however effective in overcoming the
evil that caused it and in preventing the adulteration of the tribe, was
roundly condemned by Jacob (34:30; 49:5–7; cf. 34:31).

For safety’s sake, Jacob had to leave the domain of Shechem. He was
instructed by God to return to Bethel and to sacrifice there. All danger
of evil influence from Canaanites, Arameans, or other pagan peoples was
left behind at Shechem. The journey was accomplished in peace; Bethel
itself was outside the jurisdiction of Shechem. The promise given to
Jacob fleeing to Paddan-aram was confirmed to Israel returning to the
land of the promise. As he had done previously, Jacob set up a memorial
stone, making a libation and anointing it with oil.

A brief note records the death of Rebekah’s nurse at Bethel. Evidently
she was going with Jacob in the hope of meeting his mother at Hebron. A
greater sorrow befell Jacob at Ephrath, for there Rachel died while
giving birth to her second son. To call him “son of my pain” (Benoni),
as she did, would have stigmatized the child all his life. Jacob changed
his name to the honorable “son of the right hand” (Benjamin).

At last the caravan reached Hebron. This was the family “home,” for it
contained the cave Abraham had purchased to serve as his sepulchre.
Together, Jacob and Esau buried their father. Esau returned to his
Edomite hills, while Jacob took his place as head of the family in
Canaan. In Gen. 37–50 the writer narrates events in the lives of various
members of Jacob’s family, the children of Israel. Their father’s
biography can still be traced through theirs, however, for they were
still dependent on him.

![](data:image/png;base64,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)

Illustration of Jacob blessing his sons in the *Vienna Genesis* Codex
(6th cent a.d.). The text is Gen. 49:31–33a (LXX) (Bild-Archiv des
Österreichischen Nationalbibliothek, Vienna)

In Hebron Jacob lived as he had in Haran, sowing crops each year and
pasturing his flocks wherever there was good grazing, even as far away
as Dothan. His sons grew up, married, and begot children of their own.
The favorite son was, naturally enough, Rachel’s firstborn, Joseph. His
sale into Egypt (*see* Joseph II.A) was the consequence of the treatment
his father lavished on him. After Joseph’s disappearance from home, his
brother Benjamin became his father’s dearly loved son.

Famine had driven Abraham to Egypt, and Isaac had intended to make the
same journey. Similarly, Jacob sent to the Egyptian granaries for corn
when he was in want and presently left Canaan with all his immediate
family to settle in Goshen. Every major change of Jacob’s life had been
marked with God’s approval. On this occasion Jacob sought reassurance
when he reached Beer-sheba, the place near the border of Canaan where
both Abraham and Isaac had met with God (21:33; 26:23–25). The promise
given to Jacob reiterated the promises of Bethel, that he would be the
ancestor of a great nation which would return and possess the land, even
as he himself had returned from Paddan-aram.

To Egypt
--------

The caravan passed from Gerar along the main route to Egypt until it
came to Goshen, the fertile area E of the Nile Delta. Here Joseph had
arranged for his father’s family to settle. As Israel arrived in Egypt
they must have appeared like the figures painted in a noble’s tomb at
Beni-hasan ca 1800 b.c. (see ANEP, no 3), their curly black hair and
beards and their long, colored tunics contrasting with the shaven heads
and linen kilts of the Egyptians. Visitors and settlers from Palestine
were no novelty. A list of slaves in an Egyptian household of ca 1740
b.c. included a number of Asiatics bearing Semitic names. Among them are
some formed from the same verbal roots as the names of the family of
Israel (e.g., *škr*, cf. Issachar, *˒šr*, cf. Asher; cf. W. F. Albright,
JAOS, 74 [1954], 222–233). At the close of the 18th cent b.c. the native
rulers in Lower Egypt had been ousted by the Hyksos invaders from
Palestine and Syria. These people dominated the whole country until
their expulsion ca 1567 b.c. Evidence suggests that Jacob entered Egypt
during the earlier phase of Hyksos rule, roughly ca 1700 b.c.; but this
cannot be established with certainty. At that time the royal residence
was either at Avaris (Tanis) or at Memphis, within easy reach of Goshen,
as Gen. 46–47 suggests. Jacob was introduced to the court, where the
pharaoh, with true Egyptian courtesy, inquired about his age.

![](data:image/png;base64,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)

In the pastures of Goshen, Jacob’s sons were able to live as they had in
Canaan, with the extra security afforded by Joseph’s high position at
the court. They inhabited an area separate from Egypt proper, in close
contact with the land from which they had come.

As Jacob felt death approaching, he made arrangements for the
inheritance of his property. Reuben, Jacob’s eldest son by Leah, had
disqualified himself, as far as his birthright was concerned, by his sin
(35:22). Rachel’s son stood far higher in his father’s eyes than any of
the sons of Leah, and so it was to Joseph that the extra portion was
assigned (48:22). In addition Joseph’s two eldest sons, Ephraim and
Manasseh, were adopted by their grandfather as his own sons. This action
may find a later parallel in a document from Ugarit recording the
adoption by a man of his grandson as his heir, but in that instance he
was the sole heir. Numbers of ancient wills have survived in written
form, but there is evidence that oral dispositions were equally valid in
law if duly witnessed. The complete control of the testator over his
bequests and his ability to show favor or disfavor are clearly shown in
the testament of a Hittite king, *Ḫattusilis* I (ca 1650 b.c.). Several
of the king’s sons had rebelled against him, so a nephew was adopted as
successor. He, too, made plots against the king, who eventually
designated his grandson (?) Mursilis as his “son” while he, the king,
lay dying.

The poetic form of the Blessing of Jacob doubtless enabled each of its
hearers to remember the pertinent passage easily. The subsequent history
of the several tribes is lucidly, and by divine inspiration, contained
within the few lines of each section. There are no good grounds for
doubting its authenticity, although the language may have been
“modernized” by a later editor (as was done on occasion in Egypt).
Through Jacob’s blessing the promise and covenant of God were no longer
borne by one man in each generation. With the death of Jacob commences
the history of the nation of Israel.

Jacob’s final injunction concerned his burial. His sons accordingly made
their way back to Hebron and there placed his embalmed body in the cave
Abraham had purchased as an earnest of his inheritance. All the pomp
Egypt could muster was provided for the vizier’s father. The size and
lamentations of this cortege so impressed the Canaanites that they named
a place after it. So the “wandering Aramean” rested in his homeland.

Jacob’s Religion
================

Any attempt to study the beliefs of individuals apart from their life
story is apt to become unbalanced. The stages on the road of Jacob’s
experience of God have already been noted. As the religion of Israel and
thus the roots of Christianity claim to derive from the patriarchs, it
is necessary to attempt to understand Jacob’s spiritual life.

Background
----------

The religious thought of the common people of western Asia at the time
of Jacob can be discovered only from chance references in letters and
other documents, and from material remains. Each city had its patron god
associated with various minor attendant deities. Citizens could go to
the major shrine or to smaller chapels to offer sacrifice or to join in
the festivals connected with the particular cult. To what extent private
persons could participate in the services of these temples is unknown.
The life of the king depended largely upon the commands and wishes of
the different gods as interpreted by their priests, who did not hesitate
to threaten disaster if their desires were not met. Most of the
individual’s devotion was paid to his “private” gods. It is likely that
these were represented by small images kept in the house and passed from
father to son (cf. II.C). Many cuneiform texts, notably but by no means
exclusively the records of Assyrian merchants in Anatolia ca 1900 b.c.,
refer to the god of such a man or the god of his father. This is not
evidence of monotheism — the same letter may contain a greeting, “May
Ashur [the chief god] and your god bless you” — but of a choice and
devotion to a single member of the pantheon. While the evidence is
incomplete, it appears that the individual venerated lesser gods in his
personal devotion while honoring as a citizen the local chief deity and
naming his children after him.

Abraham left the multitudinous gods of Ur for the worship of the God who
revealed Himself by the name of Yahweh. He was no minor god or even a
leader among others; He alone was God. The simple term God (Heb *˒ēl*)
or the emphatic plural form (Heb *˒*<sup>*ĕ*</sup>*lōhîm*) sufficed to
identify Him. Perhaps it was because the Canaanites placed a god ’El at
the head of their pantheon that this title seldom appears alone. In the
story of Jacob the names ’El Shaddai (43:14) and ’El Bethel (31:13;
35:7) occur together with Yahweh. They do not point to an underlying
polytheism or a syncretism of local deities or clan totems. Each name
has its own significance in the place it occupies.

Jacob’s Growth; First Crisis
----------------------------

Jacob’s religion can be viewed as consistent with the beliefs and
practices of his fathers. No doubt he received some instruction from
Isaac in the faith of the family, the history of Abraham, of the
covenant, and of the promise. He first encountered God at Bethel, at the
moment of greatest need in his life, fleeing from home to distant and
unknown relatives. He received a vision of majesty, glorious and
terrifying. Jacob saw the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, Yahweh
Himself. God repeated to him the promise given to Abraham in Ur. His
immediate reaction was to think that he had rested in a notable holy
place (28:17). In the morning, however, he consecrated it by erecting
and anointing the stone pillow. The name given expresses the
significance of this place for Jacob. Above all else it was “the house
of God.” It is not to be deduced that Jacob believed God to be confined
to the stone or to reside therein, although such ideas are not unknown
in the ancient world. Jacob returned to the place, but he also
sacrificed and worshiped elsewhere. He vowed to take Yahweh as his God,
if he should journey in safety and eventually return home. Moreover, he
would devote a tenth of his income to God (cf. Abraham, Gen. 14:20).

Second Crisis
-------------

After twenty years in Paddan-aram came the command to return to Canaan.
There could be no doubt of its authenticity, for it came in the name of
the God of Bethel. The following events shed light on the beliefs of
Jacob’s wives and their father. Already in the naming of their children
Leah and Rachel had shown that they acknowledged Yahweh as God (Gen.
29:31, 33, 35; 30:24). Upon the announcement of the vision and of the
order to leave home, they recognized it as God’s guidance (31:16). Their
life and education among the pagans of Haran, however, had imbued them
and their father with pagan superstitions. The family was thought to be
protected by the presence of images of gods, the teraphim. Rachel’s
theft of these laid the household in Haran open to the mischief of
demons of disease and workers of black magic. Laban’s eagerness to
regain possession of the figurines implied confidence in their power and
apprehension at the disasters their loss might entail. The servants in
Jacob’s train also brought images of their own. These were buried at
Shechem before the visit to Bethel, together with earrings, no doubt
decorated with heathen symbols (35:2–5). Yet Laban was not an apostate
from the family religion. He attributed Jacob’s successes as a herdsman
to the blessing of Yahweh (30:27), and he knew who it was that warned
him not to harm Jacob (31:24, 29). Most significant is the oath he swore
at Mizpah, invoking God as witness, the God of Abraham (Jacob’s
grandfather), the God of Nahor (his own grandfather), and the God of
their father Terah (31:50–53). The identity of the God of each
generation in both branches of the family is proclaimed here. In this
way the covenant was guaranteed by the witness of the Power proved
constant by the ancestors of either party. Jacob added an oath by the
“Fear” of Isaac. This epithet (31:42, 53) seemed to have been part of
the personal relationship between God and Isaac. A different
translation, “Kinsman,” has been proposed (FSAC, p. 248; but *see* Fear
II.C). A single reference might admit of Jacob’s using a similar private
epithet for God, “the Mighty One of Jacob” (49:24).

Third Crisis
------------

The third crisis was the encounter at Peniel. Before Jacob met Esau he
had seen the strength of his “Mighty One” in the angelic host at
Mahanaim. Fear of his brother brought him to pray humbly for the
protection of his father’s God. The plan he conceived for palliating
Esau’s anger and for safeguarding his property was not allowed to
supplant trust in God. The wrestling at the ford showed Jacob how weak
he was before his God. It taught him the value of the continued prayer
of one who is helpless. The awe that was aroused by the revelation at
Bethel recurred as Jacob named the place, awe that a mortal should
survive a meeting with God “face to face.”

Fourth Crisis
-------------

When Jacob setled at Shechem he built an altar to *˒El*, with whom the
local inhabitants might possibly identify their chief god. To emphasize
the distinction Jacob called the name *˒El*, God of Israel. There is no
record of his erecting an altar and making a sacrifice — a natural
sequel — before this time, apart from the sacrifice that solemnized his
treaty with Laban (31:54). Here at Shechem he had become an independent
man, head of his own family. The problem of Esau had been circumvented
and Isaac was a very old man at Mamre. As the leader of the chosen race
Jacob could offer sacrifices to God. He constructed another altar at
Bethel when he went there the second time (35:1, 7) with all his
household to worship. The promise given as he left Canaan a solitary
fugitive was renewed now to Israel, father of eleven sons, head of his
own family. All the experiences of the past had their culmination at
this moment. The new name, plus the promise of nationhood and of the
land, were confirmed by the God in whom Jacob had been taught to trust.
Remembrance of this occasion was insured by the erection of another
pillar and reiteration of the name Bethel, not in solitude but before
many witnesses, notably his sons, who would remember its meaning.

Fifth Crisis and Triumph
========================

The altar at Beer-sheba marked the final crisis. Here the patriarch
worshiped for the last time in the land promised to him. This was the
great test of his faith in God. As a counter to it he had the joyful
anticipation of reunion with his favorite son. The piety of the elderly
Hebrew is seen in his interview with the pharaoh. In the blessings of
his sons is shown the mature expression of the patriarch’s trust in God,
a confidence resulting from trying experiences. The immediate concern
was the continuance of his name and that of his father (48:16), but he
looked farther ahead to his children’s return to Canaan and to the part
of each son’s family in the life of the clan. When viewed from the NT
perspective, the blessing of Judah assumes greater import in its mention
of the coming ruler. As the writer to the Hebrew church says, “By faith
Jacob … blessed” (He. 11:21). What Jacob expected after his death is not
revealed. He spoke of himself as “going down to Sheol” (37:35; 42:38),
but this was no gloomy prospect after he had met Joseph and his two sons
(48:11). The concluding phrase of the blessing of Dan (49:18, “I await
thy salvation, O Lord!”) may hint at a deeper belief; it certainly
implies great faith in God. Throughout his life his faith had grown,
strengthened by the visions at Bethel. This was the faith he passed on
to his sons, the outcome of his experience of the God who did not
change, “before whom … Abraham … walked, … who has led me all my life
long” (48:15). No wonder that a later Israelite could sing, “Happy is
the man whose help is the God of Jacob!” (Ps. 146:5).

Israel: Man and Nation
----------------------

The narratives of Genesis paint a vivid picture of Jacob’s character.
His failings are recounted as much as his triumphs; he has a personality
of his own, distinct from his relatives, distinct from any other ancient
hero. Parallels may be found in folklore, legend, or history to one
incident in his life or another, but they should all be recognized as
common experience rather than cultural borrowings. The story of the
patriarch’s progress is a consistent whole. The many incidental details
and dissimilarities discredit theories that the stories are
retrojections of events in the history of Israel the people.

That some similarities exist is obvious. Indeed, the ancient prophets
realized this. Hosea applied to Israel the story of Jacob, for it was
their story too (Hos. 12:2–4, 12 [MT 3–5, 13]). Less precise resemblance
occurs between Jacob’s story and the teachings of Isaiah, Jeremiah, and
Habakkuk concerning the faithful among the Israelites and the stages
through which Jacob passed. Further exploration for “types” in Jacob’s
sojourn in Haran or his “exile” in Egypt exceed the limits of reasonable
exegesis. Malachi stressed the most important typical relation, the
possession of the covenant, the distinction of the choice of God (Mal.
1:2). Later Jacob became an illustration and a type of the Church (Rom.
9:10–13).

References Outside Genesis
==========================

“Jacob” and “Israel” are the two names most frequently met with in the
OT. In most cases these denote the children of Israel, particularly in
the parallelism of poetic compositions. To this day the name of the
patriarch is thus perpetuated. There remain, however, biblical passages
that refer to Jacob himself.

In the Old Testament
--------------------

A considerable group of verses associate him with Abraham and Isaac in
naming God as the God of the fathers, underlining the continuity and the
identity of the God of the past with the God of the present (e.g., Ex.
3:13–15). The collection of a small number of passages about the
patriarch himself permits the reconstruction of a fairly complete
epitome of his life. His birth as the younger twin, clutching his
brother’s heel, is recounted by Hosea (12:3 [MT 4]). God’s choice of
Jacob over Esau is mentioned in Malachi (1:2f), together with the
inheritance of the covenant and all that it contained (Ps. 105:10f).
Hosea tells specifically of the flight to Aram and the servitude by
which Jacob gained his wife (12:12 [MT 13]). He is mentioned as the
father of the twelve tribes (1 S. 12:8; 1 K. 18:31). His escape from
Laban is probably referred to in Dt. 26:5, where a “Syrian ready to
perish” (AV, RV) may be better translated “a fugitive Syrian” (RSV “a
wandering Aramean”; NEB “a homeless Aramaean”; see A. R. Millard, JNES,
39 [1980], 153–55). The hand of God protected the small clan as it moved
from place to place among hostile neighbors (Ps. 105:12–15), for the
only land Jacob owned was the plot he had purchased near Shechem (Josh.
24:32). Hosea again summarizes the encounter at Peniel and the communion
with God at Bethel (12:4 [MT 5]). The sale of Joseph as a slave to Egypt
was God’s preparation for the future need of Jacob and his family when
famine struck Canaan. So he was enabled to travel to Egypt and prosper
there (Dt. 26:5; Josh. 24:4; Ps. 105:16–24). He died there, bequeathing
the land at Shechem to Joseph’s sons (Josh. 24:32), who are counted as
two of the tribes as if they had been Jacob’s own sons (Josh. 16–17).
Here is evidence for the antiquity of the Jacob story and its diffusion,
and it is noteworthy that all is consistent with the Genesis
presentation. If the latter had been lost, it would still have been
possible to write a biography of the father of the children of Israel.

In the New Testament
--------------------

Four NT passages recall events in the life of Jacob. The conversation of
Jesus (a descendant of the patriarch, Mt. 1:2; Lk. 3:33f) and the woman
at the well of Sychar includes a declaration by the woman that Jacob
provided the well (Jn. 4:12), besides the author’s note that this was
the ground given by Jacob to Joseph (5:6). Samaritan pride can be felt
in the woman’s words “our father Jacob.” Stephen mentions the famine and
Jacob’s journey to Egypt in the course of his defense before the
Sanhedrin (Acts 7:8–16). When the patriarch and his sons died in Egypt
they were carried to Shechem and buried in the tomb Abraham bought from
the sons of Hamor (vv 15f). This is one of the curious discrepancies in
Stephen’s speech — the result, it is conjectured, of his endeavor to
include all he could of Jewish history in his argument. For the apostle
Paul, Jacob is an outstanding example of the sovereign choice of God, of
the predestination of the elect (Rom. 9:10–13). The writer of Hebrews
takes Jacob as one of his examples of active faith, a faith that
acknowledges the present protection and worship of God and that can look
forward fearlessly into the future (He. 11:9, 20–22).

[1](#sdfootnote1anc)<sup>****</sup> From International Standard Bible
Encyclopedia

