---
title: "Jerusalem"
pdf: "jerusalem.pdf"
description: "Jerusalem -  A study of the chief city of Israel."
tableOfContents: true
template: topic.jade
---



##### Introduction
The earliest written record of the city of Jerusalem is on an Assyrian
monument of the 8th Century before Christ, but archaeologists think that
the City dates back to at least 3000 BC. Jerusalem was occupied by the
Canaanites in its early history, we learn from a reference to its
Governor Abdi-Hiba in the Tell el-Amarna tablets by the Egyptian Pharoah
in about 1360 BC. Jerusalem is 2,460 feet above sea level. It is 36
miles from the Mediterranean Sea and 19 miles from the Dead Sea.

The name of Jerusalem has had a number of meanings attached to it: City
of Peace, City of the god Salem, Possession of Peace, or Foundation of
Peace.

The climate is very healthful. Winters are cold, but the lowest recorded
temperature is about 25 degrees F. During the summer, temperatures rise
to about 73 deg. in August and sometimes more than 100 deg. in
September. Average annual rainfall is 26 inches.

Jerusalem is enclosed by a rough triangle of high mountain ridges which
break the city up into five main divisions, described by Josephus as
distinct regions:

-   The Upper City, or Market Place, the southwestern hill

-   Akra, or the Lower City, the southeastern hill

-   The Temple Hill, the central eastern section

-   The Bezetha, the newly built part of the city (in Josephus’ day),
    the northeastern hill

-   The Northern Quarter, the northwestern hill

In modern times, these five divisions have taken on the following
designations:

-   The southwestern hill is known as Zion, or the fortress of David.
    The Tower of David is located here.

-   The northwestern hill is the Christian Quarter and centers around
    the Church of the Holy Sepulchre.

-   The northeastern hill is the new city.

-   The central eastern hill is the site of the Temple. It is also
    called Zion and Moriah.

-   The southeastern hill is called the City of David, and Ophel

##### The Walls of Jerusalem

The present walls go back to Suleiman the Magnificent, 1542 AD. In the
present walls there are eight existing gates:

-   On the west wall, the Jaffa Gate

-   On the north wall, the Damascus Gate, Herod’s Gate, and the New Gate

-   On the east wall, the Gate of the Tribes and the Golden Gate

-   On the south wall, the Dung Gate and the Zion Gate

##### Outline History of the City

Conquered by Judah, Judges 1:8

c. 1000 BC, David conquered the city after reigning from Hebron for 7
1/2 years, 2 Sam. 5:6-9.

714 BC, Conquered by Jehoash of Israel, 2 Kings 14:8-14

597 BC, conquered by Nebuchadnezzar of Babylon, and again in 586 BC.

321 BC, Ptolemy Soter of Egypt invaded Palestine and captured Jerusalem.

170 BC, conquered and despoiled by Antiochus.

168 BC, again attacked and spoiled by Antiochus.

163 BC, destroyed by military action and garrisoned by the Syrians.

139 BC, Simon Maccabeus captured Akra, a part of the city, and destroyed
it by leveling all of its hills.

134 BC, besieged by Antiochus Sidetes, who broke down the fortifications
surrounding the city.

63 BC, conquered by Pompey (Roman), who demolished the walls.

37 BC, Herod, the son of Antipater, took Jerusalem by storm after a
five-month siege.

70 AD, Titus, the Roman general, besieged Jerusalem for 134 days,
finally conquering it.

614, Palestine was conquered by the Persian Chostroes II, who destroyed
all churches, including that of the Holy Sepulchre.

637, conquered by Mohammedans.

1077, a leader of the Seljuk Turks conquered Palestine, drove out the
Egyptians, and massacred 3,000 people in Jerusalem.

1098, the city was again retaken by the Egyptian Arabs. Forty days later
the city was captured by the knights of the First Crusade. Most
inhabitants, Arab and Jewish, were massacred.

118 , city conquered by Saladin.

1219, walls of Jerusalem torn down at the orders of the Sultan of
Damascus.

1229, Jerusalem was obtained by treaty by Frederick II of Germany.

1244, Jerusalem was conquered, sacked, and the people massacred by the
Karizimian Tartars from Central Asia.

Palestine was again conquered by the Egyptians and held until 1517 when
it was conquered in turn by the Ottoman Turks. Jerusalem has been under
Turkish control during most of its modern history until World War I.
Jerusalem was placed under British rule in the Mandate of Palestine
after the defeat of Turkish forces in World War I.

In 1948, the British were forced to withdraw under the provisions of the
Balfour Declaration, and the Jewish state of Israel was formed.

In 1949, Jerusalem was internationalized by the United Nations.

In 1967, the Jews regained control of the entire city in the Six Days
War.

##### from the Thompson Chain Reference Bible

Jerusalem was naturally first in the minds of explorers when they
prepared to excavate, for the very thoughts of the place brought the
overtones of great memories. No one questioned the identification of the
site it occupied, but they desired to know more about its walls and
gates, and to have the holy places identified. Difficulties stood in the
way, however, for Jerusalem had been besieged, captured, or destroyed in
whole or in part more than forty times. Ruin was piled upon ruin, and
debris rolled into valleys, until in some places it was more than
thirty-five feet below the present ground level to the street levels on
which Jesus walked, and another thirty feet or more to the level on
which Old Testament characters had walked.

Added to this was the fact was the fact that almost all areas of Old
Jerusalem were cumbered by modern buildings, or cemeteries, so that the
major portion of the city was inaccessible for digging. Yet researchers
made direct diggings whenever it was possible, and tunneled under, where
such was permissible. Many able men searched the underground of
Jerusalem: Robinson, Warren, Wilson, Bliss, Guthe, Schick,
Clermont-Ganneau, Parker, Weile, Macalister, Duncan, Crowfoot, Myer,
Sukenik and others. Many discoveries have been made by their labors, and
also much has come to light through chance discoveries.

In 1838 Dr. Edward Robinson discovered curved stones which formed the
spring of a forty-two foot wide arch which projects from the southwest
corner of the Temple area. Some of the stones which made up the arch
were as much as 26 feet long. It was the eastern portion of one of the
series of arches that supported a bridge which in Herod’s time spanned
the Tyropeon Valley and connected the Temple area on Mount Moriah with
the western hill across the valley.

Years later Charles Warren discovered another arch springing from the
same wall, but 500 feet north of Robinson’s arch. It was similar to
Robinson’s, although more complete, since there were 25 courses of
stone, twelve on each side of the keystone. This, too, was the base for
a bridge across the Tyropeon Valley. The outer court of the Temple,
according to Josephus, had been entered on the western or city-side by
four gates, the two principal ones being at the points indicated by
Robinson’s arch and Wilson’s arch.

In 1850 Felicien de Sauley found a large tomb complex north of Jerusalem
which he believed to be the tomb of the kings of Judah. There was a very
fine rolling stone at the entrance, and spaces for sixty or more burials
inside. It remains until today the very finest burial tomb thus far
discovered in the Jerusalem area, but it proved to be the Mausoleum tomb
of Queen Helena of Adiabene in Mesopotamia, and her descendants, who had
been converted to Judaism and had moved to Jerusalem during the first
century A.D.

In 1852 Joseph Barclay was walking along the north wall of Jerusalem
when his dog disappeared into a cave-like opening under the wall some
300 feet east of the Damascus Gate. He removed debris about the opening
and found that it was the entrance to a stratified limestone cave which
extended southward under the city for about 700 feet. The markings along
the side and end walls show the very shape and size of the building
stones which have been quarried here, and they must have run into the
tens of thousands.

The stone is soft and white, and from the piles of stone chippings and
other evidence, many believe this to be Solomon’s quarry where his men
shaped and dressed the stones, then took them on sleds to the temple –
where the temple was constructed without the sound of hammer or ax, “nor
was any tool of iron heard in the house while it was building.” (1 Kings
6:7)

In 1865 Warren and Wilson sank seven shafts as much as ninety feet in
the Tyropeon Valley. They examined the underground temple walls and
found them to be constructed mostly of very large and beautifully worked
stones, fitted together in the most marvelous manner, the joints being
hardly discernible. These great stones belonged to the time of Herod the
Great or earlier. They also found quantities of pottery, many lamps, and
a second pavement twenty-two feet below the present ground level; and
below this pavement they uncovered the stone signet of “Haggai, the son
of Shebaniah.” This was significant, since this prophet had made direct
allusions to the signed (Haggai 2:23).

They also sank three shafts near the southeast corner of the Temple area
wall, one 90 feet, one 100 feet, and a third 125 feet deep. At various
intervals, horizontal galleries were tunneled back to the walls and
careful inspections made. The masonry had been laid with a precision and
fineness of joint surpassed only by the early Egyptian work on the
pyramids. At the southeast corner, more than 90 feet below the present
ground level, Warren found a cornerstone which was 3’ 8” high by 14 feet
long, and weighed approximately 100 tons. Many feel that this stone
could well have been laid by Solomon.

In his efforts to trace the ancient city walls, Warren sank many shafts
on the hill Ophel and laid bare David’s wall for 100 feet. Raymond
Weile, Macalister, Duncan, Sukenik, and Moyer all made valuable
discoveries in tracing the ancient walls and towers around Ophel, on to
the Citadel of David, and traced even the third wall, built by Herod
Agrippa, which ran on westward and circled around to pass back through
the property about the American School of Oriental Research, and on
toward the present corner wall near the Palestine Archaeological Museum.
In some areas the modern walls, built by Suleiman the Magnificent in
1537 to 1542, were constructed on the foundations of the ancient walls.

In 1880 some schoolboys were wading in the Pool of Siloam when one waded
about 19 feet into the conduit and discovered some peculiar marks cut in
the east rock wall above the water level – marks that looked like
writing. When they informed their teacher, Prof. Conrad Shick, he and
Dr. Sayce visited the spot and copied the inscription. It consisted of
six lines written in ancient Hebrew, practically the same characters and
alphabet as those used on the Moabite stone. The inscription read as
follows:

“Now this is the story of the boring through; while the excavators were
still lifting up their picks, each toward his fellow, and while there
were yet three cubits to excavate, there was heard the voice of one
calling to another, for there was a crevice in the rock, on the right
hand. And on the day they completed the boring through, the
stone-cutters struck pick against pick, one against the other; and the
waters flowed from the spring to the pool, a distance of 1000 cubits.
And a hundred cubits was the height of the rock above the heads of the
stone-cutters.”

There was no explanation with the inscription. And none was needed, for
all authorities agree that it was written about 702 B.C., when Hezekiah,
King of Judah, “made pool, and a conduit, and brought water into the
city” (2 Kings 20:20) to preserve the waters of the spring of Gihon
(Virgin’s Fountain) for the inhabitants of Jerusalem, when they were
threatened with invasion and famine by the Assyrian host. The account in
the Bible and the inscription agree.

The engineers surveyed, and the diggers began at both ends and worked
toward the center, a distance of 1770 feet. They dug the tunnel an
average height of six feet through the solid rock and came together
“pick to pick”, a notable feat for that day. The inscription gives
unmistakable evidence of a Hebrew alphabetical script in which Isaiah
and other prophets wrote much of the world’s most eloquent literature.

In 1871 Clermont-Ganneau recovered an inscription which had once been a
part of Herod’s temple and marked the boundary beyond which no gentile
dated go. It read: “No stranger is to enter within the balustrade around
the Temple and enclosure. Whoever is caught will be responsible to
himself for his death, which will follow.”

The longest Aramaic inscription from the time of Jesus Christ was
discovered by Prof. Sukenik in 1931. It reads: “Hitherto were brought
the bones of Uzziah, King of Judah, do not open.” It is supposed that
the reburial was made necessary by the extensive construction work
carried out by Agrippa II in Jerusalem.

##### A First View of Jerusalem

from “The Temple, Its Ministry and Services as the were at the Time of
Christ”, by Alfred Edersheim.

###### The Charm of Jerusalem

In every age, the memory of Jerusalem has stirred the deepest feelings.
Jews, Christians, and Mohammedans turn to it with reverent affection. It
almost seems as if in some sense each could call it his ‘happy home,’
the ‘name ever dear’ to him. For our holiest thoughts of the past, and
our happiest hopes for the future, connect themselves with ‘the city of
our God.’ We know from many passages of the Old Testament, but
especially from the Book of Psalms, with what ardent longing the exiles
from Palestine looked towards it; and during the long centuries of
dispersion and cruel persecution, up to this day, the same aspirations
have breathed in almost every service of the synagogue, and in none more
earnestly than in that of the paschal night, which to us is for ever
associated with the death of our Savior.

It is this one grand presence there of ‘the Desire of all nations,’
which has for ever cast a hallowed light round Jerusalem and the Temple,
and given fulfillment to the prophecy–‘Many people shall go and say,
Come ye, and let us go up to the mountain of Jehovah, to the house of
the God of Jacob; and He will teach us of His ways, and we will walk in
His paths: for out of Zion shall go forth the law, and the word of
Jehovah from Jerusalem.’ (Isaiah 2:3) His feet have trodden the busy
streets of Jerusalem, and the shady recesses of the Mount of Olives; His
figure has ‘filled with glory’ the Temple and its services; His person
has given meaning to the land and the people; and the decease which He
accomplished at Jerusalem has been for the life of all nations. These
facts can never be past–they are eternally present; not only to our
faith, but also to our hope; for He ‘shall so come in like manner’ as
the ‘men of Galilee’ had on Mount Olivet ‘seen Him go into heaven.’

###### Ancient Memories

But our memories of Jerusalem stretch far back beyond these scenes. In
the distance of a remote antiquity we read of Melchisedek, the typical
priest-king of Salem, who went out to meet Abraham, the ancestor of the
Hebrew race, and blessed him.

A little later, and this same Abraham was coming up from Hebron on his
mournful journey, to offer up his only son. A few miles south of the
city, the road by which he traveled climbs the top of a high promontory,
that juts into the deep Kedron valley. From this spot, through the cleft
of the mountains which the Kedron has made for its course, one object
rose up straight before him. It was Moriah, the mount on which the
sacrifice of Isaac was to be offered.

Here Solomon afterwards built the Temple. For over Mount Moriah David
had seen the hand of the destroying angel stayed, probably just above
where afterwards from the large altar of burnt-offering the smoke of
countless sacrifices rose day by day. On the opposite hill of Zion,
separated only by a ravine from Moriah, stood the city and the palace of
David, and close by the site of the Temple the tower of David.

After that period an ever-shifting historical panorama passes before our
view, unchanged only in this, that, amidst all the varying events,
Jerusalem remains the one center of interest and attractions, till we
come to that Presence which has made it, even in its desolateness,
‘Hephzibah,’ ‘sought out,’ ‘a city not forsaken.’ (Isa 62:4)

###### Origin of the Name

The Rabbis have a curious conceit about the origin of the name
Jerusalem, which is commonly taken to mean, ‘the foundation,’ ‘the
abode,’ or ‘the inheritance of peace.’ They make it a compound of Jireh
and Shalem, and say that Abraham called it ‘Jehovah-Jireh,’ while Shem
had named it Shalem, but that God combined the two into Jireh-Shalem,
Jerushalaim, or Jerusalem.

There was certainly something peculiar in the choice of Palestine to be
the country of the chosen people, as well as of Jerusalem to be its
capital. The political importance of the land must be judged from its
situation rather than its size. Lying midway between the east and the
west, and placed between the great military monarchies, first of Egypt
and Assyria, and then of Rome and the East, it naturally became the
battle-field of the nations and the highway of the world.

As for Jerusalem, its situation was entirely unique. Pitched on a height
of about 2,610 feet above the level of the sea, its climate was more
healthy, equable, and temperate than that of any other part of the
country. From the top of Mount Olivet an unrivalled view of the most
interesting localities in the land might be obtained. To the east the
eye would wander over the intervening plains to Jericho, mark the
tortuous windings of Jordan, and the sullen gray of the Dead Sea,
finally resting on Pisgah and the mountains of Moab and Ammon. To the
south, you might see beyond ‘the king’s gardens,’ as far as the gray
tops of ‘the hill country of Judea.’ Westwards, the view would be
arrested by the mountains of Bether, (Song of Solomon 2:17) whilst the
haze in the distant horizon marked the line of the Great Sea. To the
north, such well-known localities met the eye as Mizpeh, Gibeon, Ajalon,
Michmash, Ramah, and Anathoth. But, above all, just at your feet, the
Holy City would lie in all her magnificence, like ‘a bride adorned for
her husband.’

###### The Situation of Jerusalem

‘Beautiful for situation, the joy of the whole earth, is Mount Zion, on
the sides of the north, the city of the Great King….Walk about Zion, and
go round about her: tell the towers thereof. Mark ye well her bulwarks,
consider her palaces.’ If this could be said of Jerusalem even in the
humbler days of her native monarchy, (Psalm 48:2,12,13) it was
emphatically true at the time when Jesus ‘beheld the city,’ after Herod
the Great had adorned it with his wonted splendor. As the pilgrim bands
‘came up’ from all parts of the country to the great feasts, they must
have stood enthralled when its beauty first burst upon their gaze. Not
merely remembrances of the past, or the sacred associations connected
with the present, but the grandeur of the scene before them must have
kindled their admiration into enthusiasm.

For Jerusalem was a city of palaces, and right royally enthroned as none
other. Placed on an eminence higher than the immediate neighborhood, it
was cut off and isolated by deep valleys on all sides but one, giving it
the appearance of an immense natural fortress. All round it, on three
sides, like a natural fosse, ran the deep ravines of the Valley of
Hinnom and of the Black Valley, or Kedron, which merged to the south of
the city, descending in such steep declivity that where the two meet is
670 feet below the point whence each had started. Only on the north-west
was the city, as it were, bound to the mainland.

And as if to give it yet more the character of a series of
fortress-islands, a deep natural cleft–the Tyropoeon–ran south and north
right through the middle of the city, then turned sharply westwards,
separating Mount Zion from Mount Acra. Similarly, Acra was divided from
Mount Moriah, and the latter again by an artificial valley from Bezetha,
or the New Town. Sheer up from these encircling ravines rose the city of
marble and cedar-covered palaces. Up that middle cleft, down in the
valley, and along the slopes of the hills, crept the busy town, with its
streets, markets, and bazaars. But alone, and isolated in its grandeur,
stood the Temple Mount. Terrace upon terrace its courts rose, till, high
above the city, within the enclosure of marble cloisters, cedar-roofed
and richly ornamented, the Temple itself stood out a mass of snowy
marble and of gold, glittering in the sunlight against the
half-encircling green background of Olivet.

In all his wanderings the Jew had not seen a city like his own
Jerusalem. Not Antioch in Asia, not even imperial Rome herself, excelled
it in architectural splendor. Nor has there been, either in ancient or
modern times, a sacred building equal to the Temple, whether for
situation or magnificence; nor yet have there been festive throngs like
those joyous hundreds of thousands who, with their hymns of praise,
crowded towards the city on the eve of a Passover. No wonder that the
song burst from the lips of those pilgrims:

‘Still stand our feet, Within thy gates, Jerusalem! Jerusalem, ah! thou
art built As a city joined companion-like together.’ (Psalm 122:2,3)

From whatever side the pilgrim might approach the city, the first
impression must have been solemn and deep. But a special surprise
awaited those who came, whether from Jericho or from Galilee, by the
well-known road that led over the Mount of Olives. From the south,
beyond royal Bethlehem–from the west, descending over the heights of
Beth-horon–or from the north, journeying along the mountains of Ephraim,
they would have seen the city first vaguely looming in the gray
distance, till, gradually approaching, they had become familiar with its
outlines. It was far otherwise from the east. A turn in the road, and
the city, hitherto entirely hid from view, would burst upon them
suddenly, closely, and to most marked advantage. It was by this road
Jesus made His triumphal entry from Bethany on the week of His Passion.
Up from ‘the house of dates’ the broad, rough road would round the
shoulder of Olivet. Thither the wondering crowd from Bethany followed
Him, and there the praising multitude from the city met Him. They had
come up that same Olivet, so familiar to them all. For did it not seem
almost to form part of the city itself, shutting it off like a screen
from the desert land that descended beyond to Jordan and the Dead Sea?

###### Mount of Olives

From the Temple Mount to the western base of Olivet, it was not more
than 100 or 200 yards straight across, though, of course, the distance
to the summit was much greater, say about half a mile. By the nearest
pathway it was only 918 yards from the city gate to the principal
summit.

‘By the longer footpath it is 1,310 yards, and by the main camel road
perhaps a little farther.’ Josephus calculates the distance from the
city evidently to the top of Mount Olivet at 1,010 yards, or 5 furlongs.
See City of the Great King, p. 59.

Olivet was always fresh and green, even in earliest spring or during
parched summer–the coolest, the pleasantest, the most sheltered walk
about Jerusalem. For across this road the Temple and its mountain flung
their broad shadows, and luxuriant foliage spread a leafy canopy
overhead. They were not gardens, in the ordinary Western sense, through
which one passed, far less orchards; but something peculiar to those
climes, where Nature everywhere strews with lavish hand her flowers, and
makes her gardens–where the garden bursts into the orchard, and the
orchard stretches into the field, till, high up, olive and fig mingle
with the darker cypress and pine. The stony road up Olivet wound along
terraces covered with olives, whose silver and dark green leaves rustled
in the breeze. Here gigantic gnarled fig-trees twisted themselves out of
rocky soil; there clusters of palms raised their knotty stems high up
into waving plumed tufts, or spread, bush-like, from the ground, the
rich-colored fruit bursting in clusters from the pod. Then there were
groves of myrtle, pines, tall, stately cypresses, and on the summit
itself two gigantic cedars. To these shady retreats the inhabitants
would often come from Jerusalem to take pleasure or to meditate, and
there one of their most celebrated Rabbis was at one time wont in
preference to teach. Thither, also, Christ with His disciples often
resorted.

Coming from Bethany the city would be for some time completely hidden
from view by the intervening ridge of Olivet. But a sudden turn of the
road, where ‘the descent of the Mount of Olives’ begins, all at once a
first glimpse of Jerusalem is caught, and that quite close at hand.
True, the configuration of Olivet on the right would still hide the
Temple and most part of the city; but across Ophel, the busy suburb of
the priests, the eye might range to Mount Zion, and rapidly climb its
height to where Herod’s palace covered the site once occupied by that of
David. A few intervening steps of descent, where the view of the city
has again been lost, and the pilgrim would hurry on to that ledge of
rock. What a panorama over which to roam with hungry eagerness! At one
glance he would see before him the whole city–its valleys and hills, its
walls and towers, its palaces and streets, and its magnificent
Temple–almost like a vision from another world. There could be no
difficulty in making out the general features of the scene. Altogether
the city was only thirty-three stadia, or about four English miles, in
circumference. Within this compass dwelt a population of 600,000
(according to Tacitus), but, according to the Jewish historian,
amounting at the time of the Passover to between two and three millions,
or about equal to that of London. \*

Mr. Fergusson, in Smith’s Dictionary of the Bible, i. p. 1025,
controverts these numbers, on the ground of the population of modern
cities within a given area. But two millions represent not the ordinary
population, only the festive throngs at the Passover. Taking into
consideration Eastern habits–the sleeping on the roof, and possibly the
camping out–the computation is not extravagant. Besides, however
untruthful Josephus was, he may, as a general rule, be trusted where
official numbers, capable of verification, are concerned. In fact,
taking into account this extraordinary influx, the Rabbis distinctly
state, that during the feasts–except on the first night–the people might
camp outside Jerusalem, but within the limits of a sabbath-day’s
journey. This, as Otho well remarks (Lex. Rabb. p. 195), also explains
how, on such occasions, our Lord so often retired to the Mount of
Olives.

###### The Walls

The first feature to attract attention would be the city walls, at the
time of Christ only two in number.

The third, largest, and strongest wall, which enclosed Bezetha, or the
New Town, was built by Herod Agrippa, twelve years after the date of the
crucifixion.

The first, or old wall, began at the north-western angle of Zion, at the
tower of Hippicus, and ran along the northern brow of Zion, where it
crossed the cleft, and joined the western colonnade of the Temple at the
‘Council-house.’ It also enclosed Zion along the west and the south, and
was continued eastward around Ophel, till it merged in the south-eastern
angle of the Temple. Thus the first wall would defend Zion, Ophel, and,
along with the Temple walls,, Moriah also. The second wall, which
commenced at a gate in the first wall, called ‘Gennath,’ ran first
north, and then east, so as to enclose Acra, and terminated at the Tower
of Antonia. Thus the whole of the old city and the Temple was
sufficiently protected.

###### Tower of Antonia

The Tower of Antonia was placed at the north-western angle of the
Temple, midway between the castle of the same name and the Temple. With
the former it communicated by a double set of cloisters, with the latter
by a subterranean passage into the Temple itself, and also by cloisters
and stairs descending into the northern and the western porches of the
Court of the Gentiles. Some of the most glorious traditions in Jewish
history were connected with this castle, for there had been the ancient
‘armory of David,’ the palace of Hezekiah and of Nehemiah, and the
fortress of the Maccabees. But in the days of Christ Antonia was
occupied by a hated Roman garrison, which kept watch over Israel, even
in its sanctuary. In fact, the Tower of Antonia overlooked and commanded
the Temple, so that a detachment of soldiers could at any time rush down
to quell a riot, as on the occasion when the Jews had almost killed Paul
(Acts 21:31).

The city walls were further defended by towers–sixty in the first, and
forty in the second wall. Most prominent among them were Hippicus,
Phasaelus, and Mariamne, close by each other, to the north-west of
Zion–all compactly built of immense marble blocks, square, strongly
fortified, and surmounted by buildings defended by battlements and
turrets. \* They were built by Herod, and named after the friend and the
brother he had lost in battle, and the wife whom his jealousy had
killed.

\* For particulars of these forts, see Josephus’ Wars, v. 4, 3.

###### The Four Hills

If the pilgrim scanned the city more closely, he would observe that it
was built on four hills. Of these, the western, or ancient Zion, was the
highest, rising about 200 feet above Moriah, though still 100 feet lower
than the Mount of Olives. To the north and the east, opposite Zion, and
divided from it by the deep Tyropoeon Valley, were the crescent-shaped
Acra and Moriah, the latter with Ophel as its southern outrunner. Up and
down the slopes of Acra the Lower City crept. Finally, the fourth hill,
Bezetha (from bezaion, marshy ground), the New Town, rose north of the
Temple Mount and of Acra, and was separated from them by an artificial
valley.

The streets, which, as in all Eastern cities, were narrow, were paved
with white marble. A somewhat elevated footway ran along for the use of
those who had newly been purified in the Temple, while the rest walked
in the roadway below. The streets derived their names mostly from the
gates to which they led, or from the various bazaars. Thus there were
‘Water-street,’ ‘Fish-street,’ ‘East-street,’ etc. The ‘Timber Bazaar’
and that of the ‘Tailors’ were in the New City; the Grand Upper Market
on Mount Zion. Then there were the ‘Wool’ and the ‘Braziers’ Bazaar’;
‘Baker-street,’ ‘Butcher-street,’ ‘Strangers’-street,’ and many others
similarly named. Nor would it have been difficult to identify the most
prominent buildings in the city. At the north-western angle of Mount
Zion, the ancient Salem and Jebus, on the site of the castle of David,
was the grand palace of Herod, generally occupied by the Roman
procurators during their temporary sojourn in Jerusalem. It stood high
up, just within shelter of the great towers which Herod had reared–a
marvel of splendor, of whose extent, strength, height, rooms, towers,
roofs, porticoes, courts, and adjacent gardens Josephus speaks in such
terms of admiration.

###### High-Priest’s Palace

At the opposite, or north-eastern corner of Mount Zion, was the palace
of the High-priest. Being built on the slope of the hill, there was
under the principal apartments a lower story, with a porch in front, so
that we can understand how on that eventful night Peter was ‘beneath in
the palace.’ (Mark 14:66) Beyond it, probably on the slope of Acra, was
the Repository of the Archives, and on the other side of the cleft,
abutting on the Temple, with which it was probably connected by a
colonnade, the Council Chamber of the Sanhedrim. Following the eastern
brow of Mount Zion, south of the High-priest’s palace, and opposite the
Temple, was the immense Xystus, which probably extended into the
Tyropoeon. Whatever may have been its original purpose, \* it was
afterwards used as a place of public meetings, where, on great
occasions, the populace was harangued.

\* Barclay suggest that the Xystus had originally been the heathen
gymnasium built by the infamous high-priest Jason. (City of the Great
King, p. 101)

Here Peter probably addressed the three thousand converts on the day of
Pentecost when the multitude had hurried thither from the Temple on
hearing ‘the mighty rushing sound.’ The Xystus was surrounded by a
covered colonnade. Behind it was the palace of Agrippa, the ancient
palace of David and of the Maccabees, and again, in the rear of it, that
of Bernice. On Acra stood afterwards the palaces of certain foreign
princes, such as those of Queen Helena, King Monobasus, and other
proselytes. In this quarter, or even beyond it to the north-west, one
would naturally look for the Theatre and the Amphitheatre, which, being
so essentially un-Jewish, must have been located as far as possible from
the Temple. The space around the Temple was no doubt kept clear of
buildings. On the south-eastern corner behind it was the great Sheep
Market, and to the south of it the Hippodrome. Originally, the king’s
house by the horse-gate, built by Solomon, and the royal stables, had
occupied the southern area of the Temple Mount, where Herod afterwards
built the ‘Royal Porch.’ For the Temple of Solomon was 300 feet shorter,
from north to south, than that of Herod. Transversely, between Xystus
and the Fish Gate, lay the quarter of Maktesh, (Zeph 1:10,11) occupied
by various bazaars, chiefly connected with the Temple. Lastly, south of
the Temple, but on the same hill, was Ophel, the crowded suburb of the
priests.

###### The Shushan Gate

Such must have been a first view of Jerusalem, as ‘beheld’ from the
Mount of Olives, on which we are supposed to have taken our stand. If
Jewish tradition on the subject may be trusted, a gate opened upon this
Mount of Olives through the eastern wall of the Temple. \*

\* In the chamber above this gate two standard measures were kept,
avowedly for the use of the workmen employed in the Temple. (Chel. 17.
9.)

It is called ‘the Shushan Gate,’ from the sculptured representation over
it of the city to which so many Jewish memories attached. From this gate
an arched roadway, by which the priests brought out the ‘red heifer,’
and on the Day of Atonement the scapegoat, is said to have conducted to
the Mount of Olives. Near the spot where the red heifer was burned were
extensive lavatories, and booths for the sale of articles needed for
various purifications. Up a crest, on one of the most commanding
elevations, was the Lunar Station, whence, by fire signals, the advent
of each new moon was telegraphed from hill to hill into far countries.
If Jewish tradition may further be trusted, there was also an unused
gate in the Temple towards the north–Tedit or Tere–and two gates towards
the south. We know for certain of only a subterranean passage which led
from the fortress Antonia on the ‘north-western angle’ of the Temple
into the Temple Court, and of the cloisters with stairs descending into
the porches, by one of which the chief captain Lysias rushed to the
rescue of Paul, when nearly killed by the infuriated multitude.
Dismissing all doubtful questions, we are sure that at any rate five
gates opened into the outer Temple enclosure or Court of the
Gentiles–one from the south, and four–and these the principal–from the
west. That southern gate was double, and must have chiefly served the
convenience of the priests. Coming from Ophel, they would pass through
its gigantic archway and vestibule (40 feet each way), and then by a
double tunnel nearly 200 feet long, whence they emerged at a flight of
steps leading straight up from the Court of the Gentiles into that of
the priests, close to the spot where they would officiate. \*

\* Jewish tradition mentions the following five as the outer gates of
the Temple: that of Shushan to the east, of Tedi to the north, of
Copponus to the west, and the two Huldah gates to the south. The Shushan
gate was said to have been lower than the others, so that the priests at
the end of the ‘heifer-bridge’ might look over it into the Temple. In a
chamber above the Shushan gate, the standard measures of the ‘cubit’
were kept.

But to join the great crowd of worshippers we have to enter the city
itself. Turning our back on Mount Zion, we now face eastwards to Mount
Moriah. Though we look towards the four principal entrances to the
Temple, yet what we see within those walls on the highest of the
terraces is not the front but the back of the sanctuary. It is curious
how tradition is here in the most palpable error in turning to the east
in worship. The Holy Place itself faced east-wards, and was approached
from the east; but most assuredly the ministering priests and the
worshippers looked not towards the east, but towards the west.

###### The Temple Plateau

The Temple plateau had been artificially leveled at immense labor and
cost, and enlarged by gigantic substructures. The latter served also
partly for the purpose of purification, as otherwise there might have
been some dead body beneath, which, however great the distance from the
surface, would, unless air had intervened, have, according to tradition,
defiled the whole place above. As enlarged by Herod the Great, the
Temple area occupied an elongated square of from 925 to 950 feet and
upwards. \*

\* Many modern writers have computed the Temple area at only 606 feet,
while Jewish authorities make it much larger than we have stated it. The
computation in the text is based on the latest and most trustworthy
investigations, and fully borne out by the excavations made on the spot
by Capts. Wilson and Warren.

Roughly calculating it at about 1,000 feet, this would give an extent
more than one-half greater than the length of St. Peter’s at Rome, which
measures 613 feet, and nearly double our own St. Paul’s, whose extreme
length is 520 1/2 feet. And then we must bear in mind that the Temple
plateau was not merely about 1,000 feet in length, but a square of
nearly 1,000 feet! It was not, however, in the center of this square,
but towards the north-west, that the Temple itself and its special
courts were placed. Nor, as already hinted, were they all on a level,
but rose terrace upon terrace, till the sacred edifice itself was
reached, its porch protruding, ‘shoulder-like,’ on either side–perhaps
rising into two flanking towers–and covering the Holy and Most Holy
Places. Thus must the ‘golden fane’ have been clearly visible from all
parts; the smoke of its sacrifices slowly curling up against the blue
Eastern sky, and the music of its services wafted across the busy city,
while the sunlight glittered on its gilt roofs, or shone from its
pavement of tesselated marble, or threw great shadows on Olivet behind.

###### Fables of the Rabbis

Assuredly, when the Rabbis thought of their city in her glory, they
might well say: ‘The world is like unto an eye. The ocean surrounding
the world is the white of the eye; its black is the world itself; the
pupil is Jerusalem; but the image within the pupil is the sanctuary.’ In
their sorrow and loneliness they have written many fabled things of
Jerusalem, of which some may here find a place, to show with what halo
of reverence they surrounded the loving memories of the past. Jerusalem,
they say, belonged to no tribe in particular–it was all Israel’s. And
this is in great measure literally true; for even afterwards, when
ancient Jebus became the capital of the land, the boundary line between
Judah and Benjamin ran right through the middle of the city and of the
Temple; so that, according to Jewish tradition, the porch and the
sanctuary itself were in Benjamin, and the Temple courts and altar in
Judah.

In Jerusalem no house might be hired. The houses belonged as it were to
all; for they must all be thrown open, in free-hearted hospitality, to
the pilgrim-brethren that came up to the feast. Never had any one failed
to find in Jerusalem the means of celebrating the paschal festivities,
nor yet had any lacked a bed on which to rest. Never did serpent or
scorpion hurt within her precincts; never did fire desolate her streets,
nor ruin occur. No ban ever rested on the Holy City. It was Levitically
more sacred than other cities, since there alone the paschal lamb, the
thank-offerings, and the second tithes might be eaten. Hence they
carefully guarded against all possibility of pollution. No dead body
might remain in the city overnight; no sepulchers were there, except
those of the house of David and of the prophetess Huldah. No even
domestic fowls might be kept, nor vegetable gardens be planted, lest the
smell of decaying vegetation should defile the air; nor yet furnaces be
built, for fear of smoke. Never had adverse accident interrupted the
services of the sanctuary, nor profaned the offerings. Never had rain
extinguished the fire on the altar, nor contrary wind driven back the
smoke of the sacrifices; nor yet, however great the crowd of
worshippers, had any failed for room to bow down and worship the God of
Israel!

Thus far the Rabbis. All the more impressive is their own admission and
their lament–so significant as viewed in the light of the Gospel: ‘For
three years and a half abode the Shechinah’ (or visible Divine presence)
‘on the Mount of Olives,’–waiting whether Israel would repent–‘and
calling upon them, “Seek ye the Lord while He may be found, call upon
Him while He is near.” And when all was in vain, then the Shechinah
returned to its own place!’

###### Jerusalem in Ruins

The Shechinah has withdrawn to its own place! Both the city and the
Temple have been laid ‘even with the ground,’ because Jerusalem knew not
the time of her visitation (Luke 19:44). ‘They have laid Jerusalem on
heaps’ (Psalm 79:1). ‘The stones of the sanctuary are poured out in the
top of every street’ (Lam 4:1). All this, and much more, did the Savior,
the rightful King of Israel, see in the near future, when ‘He beheld the
city, and wept over it.’ And now we must search very deep down, sinking
the shaft from 60 to over 125 feet through the rubbish of accumulated
ruins, before reaching at last the ancient foundations. And there, close
by where once the royal bridge spanned the deep chasm and led from the
City of David into the royal porch of the Temple, is ‘the Jews’ Wailing
Place,’ where the mourning heirs to all this desolation reverently
embrace the fallen stones, and weep unavailing tears–unavailing because
the present is as the past, and because what brought that judgment and
sorrow is unrecognized, unrepented, unremoved. Yet–‘Watchman, what of
the night? Watchman, what of the night? The watchman said, The morning
cometh and also the night. If ye will inquire, inquire! Return, come!’


