---
title: "John the Baptist"
pdf: "johnthebaptist_outline.pdf"
description: "John the Baptist -  -a complete exposition of all of the teaching in the Bible about the great prophet and his relationship to Jesus Christ."
template: lesson.jade
---


John the Baptist 5

John the Baptist

**from the International Standard Bible Encyclopedia**

#### Sources

For trustworthy information concerning the life and work of John the
Baptist we must go to the NT and Josephus. The Synoptic Gospels tell of
his origin, ministry, message, and death. The Fourth Gospel focuses on
his relation to Jesus. Josephus (Antiquities xviii.5.2 [116–19]) reports
his popularity, relation to Herod Antipas, and death.

#### Parentage

Although in his ministry John was widely recognized as “a real prophet”
(Mark 11:32), he was of priestly descent (as were Jeremiah and Ezekiel).
His mother Elizabeth was one “of the daughters of Aaron” and his father
was a priest “of the division of Abijah” (Luke 1:5), one of twenty-four
divisions that took turns serving in the temple at Jerusalem (1
Chronicles 24:10). “They were both righteous before God … had no child …
and both were advanced in years” (Luke 1:6f). Their home was in “the
hill country of Judea” (Luke 1:65).

#### Early Life

Luke 1:36 indicates that John was born about six months before Jesus,
whose birth cannot be dated later than early in 4 B.C. This suggests
that John, like Jesus, began his ministry when he was about thirty years
old (cf. Luke 3:23). His father, an upright priest, lived in the hill
country of Judea near the Qumrân sect, which was located in the
wilderness of Judea near the northwest shore of the Dead Sea. This
community had as its nucleus earnest priests who expected God to act
soon to establish His rule. It has been suggested that Zechariah was in
sympathy with the Qumrân group, and that when he and his wife died -
both were already old when John was born - John was brought up at Qumrân
and there was taught that the Scriptures promised God’s early action to
judge and redeem His people. What is clear is that “the child grew and
became strong in spirit, and he was in the wilderness [of Judea] till
the day of his manifestation to Israel” (Luke 1:80). It was a period of
silence, study, thought, and preparation.

#### Ministry

John was still in the wilderness of Judea when “the word of God” called
him to preach (Luke 3:2), and there in the wilderness he began his
ministry (Mt. 3:1). This wilderness included not only the wild rocky
region west of the Dead Sea but also the lower region of the Jordan
Valley. At first John preached in the Jordan Valley just N of the Dead
Sea; John 1:28 places part of this ministry at Bethany beyond Jordan,
which may be located E of Jericho on the east bank of the Jordan River,
perhaps in the Wâdī el-Kharrâr. But John moved about; John 3:23 speaks
of a later ministry at Aenon near Salim, which may have been in Samaria,
a few miles E of Jacob’s Well, or further N, a few miles S of
Scythopolis. At the end of his ministry he must have been either in
Galilee or (probably) Perea, for Herod Antipas, who arrested him, ruled
only these regions.

Luke 3:1f gives an elaborate dating for the beginning of John’s
ministry. For Luke this event was important not only because John’s
prophetic ministry was influential but also because it heralded the new
decisive action of God. The date cannot have been before A.D. 26, when
Pilate became governor of Judea (cf. also John 2:20), nor later than
A.D. 28, for Jesus’ ministry must have begun by then.

John dressed in rough garb, and ate the simple food available in the
wilderness (Mark 1:6); the leather girdle recalls the dress of Elijah (2
KINGS 1:8), and may suggest that John was conscious of a call to a
ministry like that of Elijah. He did not go to Jerusalem or any city,
but stayed in the wilderness and preached in the open. For his baptism
he wanted running water, which was one factor in determining where he
preached, and John 1:28; 3:23 indicate that he preached where people
passed by and he could easily be found. To fulfill his God-given mission
he lived a life of stern hardship. That “John came neither eating nor
drinking” (Matt. 11:18) is a dramatic way of describing his simple,
sef-denying way of life.

His preaching made no mention of ceremonial or priestly requirements. He
addressed it to Jews (Matt. 3:9; Luke 3:8), and announced the imminent
coming of the messianic age, “the kingdom of heaven” (Matt. 3:2). He
made no claim to be the Messiah, and even denied being Elijah (Mal. 4:5)
or the prophet (Deut. 18:15); he was simply the warning “voice of one
crying in the wilderness” (Mark 1:3; Luke 3:15f; John 1:20–23).

The warning was urgent, for preliminary to the coming of God’s final
kingdom would be stern judgment, carried out by One mightier than John;
it would bring blessing to those ready, but the fire of devastating
judgment to the wicked (Mt. 3:11f; Luke 3:16f). And instead of
delivering the Jews from the foreign oppressor and honoring them, it
would strike Israel first of all. Descent from Abraham would be no
protection; Jews as well as Gentiles were sinners.

The only escape was to repent, turn from sin, and change one’s entire
attitude and way of life. Those who did this and were baptized received
forgiveness. But the repentance had to be real and thorough; the
repentant person had to “bear fruits that befit repentance” (Luke 3:8).
All must share their goods and food, tax collectors must be honest, and
soldiers must refrain from extortion and be content with their pay (Luke
3:10–14).

John’s method and message were urgent. He had no time for long
discussions. Whether he addressed his warning of imminent judgment to
“the multitudes” generally (Luke 3:7), or particularly to “the Pharisees
and Sadducees“(Matt. 3:7), it was a stern, fiery, fearless warning of
imminent doom from which escape was possible only by prompt and genuine
repentance matched by thorough obedience to God’s will.

#### Baptism

Though John was a prophet and gave no teaching requiring ceremonial
priestly practices, he gave such prominence to baptism that his
distinguishing title was “the Baptist” (ho baptisté̄s, Mt. 3:1; etc.) or
“the Baptizer” (ho baptízōn, only in Mark 1:4; 6:14, 24), and his
message was called “a baptism of repentance” (Mark 1:4). This
distinctive rite, evidently administered in the running water of the
Jordan River (Mark 1:5) or at springs (John 3:23), was a symbolic
expression of John’s message.

#### Origin

The practice of ceremonial baths and washings was common throughout the
ancient world, and persistent search has been made for the background
that best explains why John gave baptism so prominent a place. Various
washings were prescribed in the Mosaic law to remove defilement and
infection and restore the normal clean state (Lev. 11–15). The messianic
promises of the OT mention “a fountain opened for the house of Israel
and the inhabitants of Jerusalem to cleanse them from sin and
uncleanness” (Zech. 13:1); God was to “sprinkle clean water upon you,
and you shall be clean from all your uncleannesses” and receive “a new
heart” and “a new spirit” (Ezekiel 36:25f).

By the time John began to preach, the Jews were requiring of proselytes
from the gentile world not only circumcision but also baptism. This
proselyte baptism was regarded as a cleansing from the ceremonial
defilement that in Jewish eyes affected every Gentile. Frequent washings
also were known among Jews. Josephus went into the wilderness and spent
some time with Banus, an ascetic who “bathed himself in cold water
frequently”. Josephus also reported that the Essenes “bathe their bodies
in cold water”. The Qumrân Scrolls contain references to ritual
lustrations, and some think that the reservoirs found at Qumrân attest
frequent lustrations.

The Jewish community at Qumrân probably was an Essene or Essene-type
community, but it is doubtful that there was repeated ritual washing in
such rather small reservoirs. In any case, a single initiatory baptism
or bath is not attested at Qumrân, though no doubt some ritual washings
were carried out there by this Jewish sect.

None of these ancient practices really explains the origins of John’s
baptism. They show only that such a baptism would not have seemed
strange in the ancient Near Eastern world, and they give clues to what
John’s baptism meant to the Jews; but his baptism was something new.

#### Significance

This baptism was administered but once to a person, and thus differed
from the repeated washings so widely practiced. It was administered to
Jews and so differed from proselyte baptism of Gentiles. It was not
accompanied or immediately followed by the gift of the Holy Spirit, and
so was not a full parallel to Christian baptism; John only promised the
gift of the Spirit at some future time.

John’s baptism had an eschatological focus. God’s decisive action was
imminent; judgment would strike all sinners, including unprepared Jews.
Earnest repentance, divine forgiveness, and complete change of life were
urgently necessary to escape judgment and enter the coming kingdom (Mt.
3:10; Luke 3:9). Baptism was for penitent Jews, who thereby confessed
their sins, renounced their old way of life, received forgiveness,
dedicated themselves to a loyal and upright life, and looked expectantly
for the coming of God’s Mightier One to establish the divine kingdom.
Contrary to Josephus (Ant. xviii.5.2 [117f]), it was not merely for
physical cleansing; it symbolized the spiritual cleansing and renewal of
the repentant and reformed sinner.

#### Baptism of Jesus

It is historical fact that Jesus was baptized by John. Matthew, Mark,
and Luke say so, and John 1:31–33 implies it. But John baptized
repentant sinners. Did Jesus confess personal sin? The NT rejects such
an idea. Mt. 3:13–15 explains why He asked to be baptized: “to fulfill
all righteousness.” This means not that it was a hollow form to Him, but
that He was so loyal a member of His people and so identified with them
that He had to join with them in their confession and dedication (cf. 2
Cor. 5:21).

Imprisonment and Death
----------------------

The exact date of John’s imprisonment cannot be determined, but it
occurred before Jesus returned to Galilee to open His ministry there
(Mark 1:14), and so ca A.D. 28. The length of imprisonment is likewise
uncertain. Since John died before Jesus’ ministry ended (Mark 6:14–29),
it occurred not later than A.D. 29. Josephus reports a defeat of Herod
Antipas in A.D. 36 which people thought was divine retribution on Herod
for executing John (Ant. xviii.5.2 [116f]). This might suggest a date
later than A.D. 29. But John clearly died before Jesus did, and the
story Josephus tells simply shows how deeply John impressed the people
and how vividly they remembered him seven years after his death.

According to Josephus, Herod Antipas feared that John by his fiery
preaching might stir up a revolt, so he seized him, imprisoned him at
Machaerus E of the Dead Sea, and had him put to death. In the Gospels
John’s rebuke of Herod for marrying his brother’s wife Herodias caused
Herod to arrest him (Mark 6:17f; Mt. 14:3f; Luke 3:19f). Quite possibly
both explanations contain truth. Herod’s fear of political results from
John’s preaching would explain the imprisonment; the scheming of
Herodias explains best the extreme step of executing John by beheading
him.

#### John the Baptist’s Disciples

Most hearers of John, even those baptized, returned home after a time;
but some became his disciples and lived as a group under his leadership.
Even after his imprisonment they kept in touch with him; once a group of
them came to Jesus with a question from him (Mt. 11:2; Luke 7:19).
Later, when John was executed, they buried his body and reported his
death to Jesus. As during his ministry, they followed his teaching,
fasted regularly (Mark 2:18), and prayed as he had taught them (Luke
11:1).

Little is known of their continuing work Their loyalty to him during his
imprisonment shows that they continued to live as his disciples. About
twenty-five years later, when Apollos, a native of Alexandria, came to
Ephesus, “he knew only the baptism of John,” though he knew the OT
prophecies of Jesus or some facts about Jesus’ earthly life (Acts
18:25). Did he learn of John’s message and baptism in Alexandria or in
Jerusalem?

At least the incident shows that John’s movement continued and spread.
The twelve men at Ephesus who had not heard of the Holy Spirit but had
been baptized into John’s baptism (Acts 19:1–7) are further evidence of
this. The pointed insistence in John 1:20; 3:28 that John was not the
Messiah but had directed men to Jesus indicates that when the Fourth
Gospel was written, probably late in the 1st cent A.D., John’s movement
still continued, especially in Asia Minor, and some of his followers
were claiming that John was the promised messianic leader. Some but by
no means all of John’s followers became followers of Jesus (Mt. 14:12?;
John 1:35–42).

#### John and Jesus

Though many of John’s followers gave John a rank superior to Jesus, John
himself clearly claimed a preparatory and secondary role. He was sent by
God but was subordinate to the Mightier One to come, and so could only
hold the center of the stage for a limited time. His task was to
proclaim the imminent coming of God’s righteous kingdom and to call his
hearers to repent and be baptized to escape the impending judgment and
find a place in that kingdom. He announced the coming of the Mightier
One, who would execute God’s judgment, establish God’s perfect order,
and bestow the Holy Spirit on God’s loyal people.

Matthew 3:14 suggests that John knew clearly that Jesus was the Greater
One, and in John 1:29, 33, 36 John explicitly identifies Jesus as the
Greater One, the Lamb of God, and the Son of God. But in Mt. 11:2f and
Luke 7:19 John sends from prison to ask Jesus if He is the Coming One,
and Peter is said to have expressed a new, God-given revelation when at
the end of the Galilean ministry he identifies Jesus as the Messiah (Mt.
16:17). These two groups of evidence are not contradictory.

John sensed the greatness in Jesus without explicitly and immediately
grasping and stating the full Christian gospel; the Fourth Gospel, in
which men ascribe explicitly to Jesus in the first week of His ministry
every great title the gospel story will contain, legitimately dramatizes
the essential meaning of John’s message and relation to Jesus without
waiting for it to become clear, as it does in the other Gospels, in the
ongoing development of His ministry.

The Synoptic Gospels and the Fourth Gospel are in essential agreement.
The latter’s concern is always to bring out the full meaning of the
story; John the Baptist had really pointed to Jesus without fully
understanding what God was doing through him. Hence John’s followers
could think that they were true to him by continuing his independent
movement, while the disciples of Jesus could rightly claim that they had
grasped the final meaning of John’s preaching and attitude.

Jesus’ estimate of John was both positive and reserved. By coming to
hear John preach and by being baptized Jesus recognized John’s God-given
mission. To Jesus, John was a true prophet of God, and more; he was
Elijah who had come to prepare for God’s final judgment and redemption
(Mal. 4:5; Mt. 11:9–14). No greater man had lived. John’s message and
baptism, Jesus held, were as surely prompted by God as was His own
ministry (Mark 11:27–33). “Yet he who is least in the kingdom of heaven
is greater than he” (Matt. 11:11), for John did not fully grasp the
whole gospel and did not disband his followers when Jesus appeared, but
continued to preach independently about the coming crisis, divine
judgment, and the need of repentance and baptism. John prepared the way;
the kingdom began to come in the ministry and work of Jesus. John had
been divinely sent and was not repudiated, but once Jesus appeared John
had to decrease while Jesus increased (John 3:30).

