---
title: "Josephus"
pdf: "josephus.pdf"
description: "Jewish historian and general in the war of the Jews against the Romans in A.D. 66-70."
tableofcontents: true
template: topic.jade
---

**Josephus, Flavius**  Jewish historian and general
in the war of the Jews against the Romans in a.d. 66–70. Josephus was
born the son of a distinguished priestly family sometime between Sept.
13, a.d. 37, and March 16, 38, and died probably ca a.d. 100 in Rome.
His writings give some information about his life and family
relationships. He was married four times and had five sons. His parents
provided him an excellent rabbinic education, and at the early age of
fourteen, so he boasted, he was so learned that the high priests and the
leading men of the city of Jerusalem consulted him about matters of the
law. Presumably he had also learned some Greek as a youth. When he was
sixteen he undertook further training with the Pharisees, Sadducees,
Essenes, and finally with a hermit. At nineteen he joined the Pharisees
and remained for the rest of his life a faithful pharisaic Jew, perhaps
of Shammaite tendency. He did not, however, take part in the new
development of rabbinic Judaism after a.d. 70. In 64, when he was
twenty-nine years old, he traveled to Rome to procure the release of
several pious priests, his friends, who, as he said, had been arrested
and sent there on insufficient grounds by the governor Felix. He was
successful, thanks to a chance meeting with Nero’s wife Poppaea.

When he returned to his homeland, probably impressed by the splendor and
might of Rome, he tried first to extinguish the rising fires of
insurrection against Rome but finally joined the rebels and became
general of the Jewish forces in Galilee. His activities as regional
commander, some of which were dubious, culminated in the heroic defense
of the fortress Jotapata against Vespasian in 67. Taken prisoner and led
before the Roman commander-in-chief, Josephus, who as a priest felt
himself especially qualified to know and proclaim God’s will, prophesied
that Vespasian would become caesar. His prophecy was probably influenced
by his insight that Rome was now called to rule the world and that the
Jewish people probably could survive, independent and secure, in
cooperation with Rome. Vespasian, evidently impressed with this man,
spared his life and, when he actually was proclaimed caesar in 69, set
Josephus free. Through this act of manumission Josephus became Josephus
Flavius, i.e., Vespasian’s family name (*gens Flavia*) was added to his
own name. Vespasian’s son Titus, whom Vespasian commissioned to end the
war against the Jews, took Josephus to Judea, where Josephus was able to
witness at firsthand the siege and capture of Jerusalem in the summer of
70. He returned with Titus to Rome, where he lived the life of an author
as a favorite of Caesar’s court. There he wrote, as a kind of court
historian, his *Jewish War* (*De bello judaico* = BJ), a complete
description of the war of 66–70, preceded by a thorough description of
the events leading up to that war. After the death of Vespasian Josephus
retained the favor of his successors Titus and Domitian (d a.d. 96), but
the end of his life is obscure.

Four of his works are extant: the *Jewish War* in seven books (a.d.
75–79); *Jewish Antiquities (Ant.)* in twenty books (completed 93/94);
his autobiography (*Vita*) in one book, a kind of appendix to the
*Antiquities* that contains mainly a comprehensive accounting of his
activity in Galilee and relatively little about the remaining events of
his life; and *Against Apion* (Contra Apionem = CAp), written certainly
after 93/94 but probably before 96. This last is a thorough and
convincing defense against the anti-Jewish polemic of non-Jewish authors
and is at the same time a description of central Jewish religious
convictions. It is uncertain whether Josephus wrote any other works.
These alone make him a very important Jewish historian, perhaps the most
important. His *Antiquities*, partly a free paraphrase and adaptation of
the biblical books, comprise a history of the Jewish people from the
creation of the world until his own time, as well as a kind of
introduction to his earlier work. Not until H. Graetz, who in the 19th
cent wrote his *History of the Jews*, did anyone venture an undertaking
of similarly great scope. Without the *Antiquities* and *Jewish War*
little would be known about the historical events and the religious
currents in Palestine in the two centuries before the destruction of
Jerusalem in 70. The value of Josephus lies in his usefulness as a
source for the history of Christianity as well as of Judaism; for his
accounts are especially extensive precisely for those decades in which
Christianity originated. Like Philo and the LXX, his writings were
valued and used so much by the early Church that they were soon
transmitted only by Christians and were almost forgotten in Judaism.

The way in which Josephus composed his writings is still subject to some
scholarly debate. In writing *Jewish War* — which was originally in
Aramaic — he did use helpers proficient in languages, because at the
beginning of his writing career his command of Greek was insufficient to
enable him to write with acceptable literary skill. His three other
works, however, were probably written without any stylistic helpers. Any
suggestion that Josephus continually rewrote his works and issued
different editions is unfounded.

It is true that, very early in the transmission of Josephus’s writings,
Christians altered some sections and misrepresented Josephus as
demonstrating some Christian beliefs. Thus the famous *testimonium
Flavianum*, supposed to be the witness of the Jew Flavius Josephus to
Jesus Christ, is certainly not genuine in its traditional form; at the
most it contains a genuine nucleus. This *testimonium* was considered
especially convincing because it had come from the enemy camp, so it was
an important factor in the high honor given to Josephus by the early
Church. (*See* Jesus Christ I.B.)

The value of Josephus for the reader and student of the OT and NT is so
high that already in the Middle Ages he was often seen almost as a
church father, and in more recent times his work has sometimes been
regarded — half jestingly — as a “Fifth Gospel” or “Small Bible.” The
first half of the *Antiquities* is an especially invaluable witness to
Jewish biblical exegesis, and Jewish traditions of all kinds, in the
time of the origin of the NT. His works increase our knowledge of many
historical and geographical details found in the Gospels. For example,
Josephus’s descriptions of the Jewish revolutionary parties and the
Essenes are indispensable sources for the study of the Zealots and the
Qumrân texts. His accounts of the fall of Jerusalem in 70 seemed to some
early Christians to show the fulfillment of the NT threats of punishment
for this city, which, for example, led to an old Syriac translation of
his account of the destruction being taken into the Syriac canon as a
“Fifth Maccabees.” Parts of Josephus’s works were even bound into some
editions of the printed Bibles. As late as the 19th cent, especially in
the English-speaking world, the reading of Josephus in many private
homes was second only to the reading of the Bible.

***Bibliography.***—H. St.-J. Thackeray, etal, eds, texts and
translations in LCL (9 vols, 1926–1965); H. Schreckenberg,
*Bibliographie zu Flavius Josephus* (1968), *Supplementband* (1979); D.
M. Rhoads, *Israel in Revolution* 674 C.E.: *A Political History Based
on the Writings of Josephus* (1976); S. J. D. Cohen, *Josephus in
Galilee and Rome: His Vita and Development as a Historian* (1979); Engtr
by W. Whiston (1867, often reprinted).

H. Schreckenberg

