---
title: "Year of Jubilee"
indexTitle: "Jubilee, Year of"
pdf: "jubilee.pdf"
description: "the fiftieth year was to be announced as a Jubilee Year. It possessed the function of an ordinary sabbatic year, thus allowing the land to lie fallow for two successive years."
template: topic.jade
---


<sup>The\\ Year\\ of\\ Jubilee</sup>

**Jubilee, Year of**[Heb *š*<sup>*e*</sup>*naṯ hayyôḇēl* (Lev. 25:13),
or simply *hayyôḇēl* (25:28) \< *qeren hayyôḇēl*—‘the horn of the ram,’
made into a trumpet (Josh. 6:5f)]; AV JUBILE. According to Lev. 25:9 a
loud trumpet should proclaim liberty throughout Israel on the tenth day
of the seventh month (the Day of Atonement), after a lapse of seven
sabbaths of years, or forty-nine years. In this manner the fiftieth year
was to be announced as a Jubilee Year. It possessed the function of an
ordinary sabbatic year, thus allowing the land to lie fallow for two
successive years (Lev. 25:11, 22; *see* Sabbatical Year). But in
addition, real property was automatically to revert to its original
owners (25:10, 13); and those who had been compelled by poverty to sell
themselves for indentured service to their brothers were to gain release
(v 39).

I. Personal Liberty
===================

The fiftieth year was to be a time of proclaiming liberty to all the
inhabitants of the land. God had redeemed His people from bondage in
Egypt (Lev. 25:42); and none of them was again to be reduced to the
status of an *˓eḇeḏ*, or slave (v 39). Poverty could, even at its worst,
reduce an Israelite to a status no less than that of a hired servant, a
wage earner, and then only until the Year of Jubilee (v 40). God’s
chosen child was not to be oppressed (vv 43, 46; *see* Slave). Indeed,
as citizens of the theocratic kingdom, masters and servants had become
brothers together (cf. Philem. 16). Thus, as seen in its widest
application, only through its loyalty to God could Israel as a nation
ever hope to be free and independent of other masters.

II. Restitution of Property
===========================

A second feature of the Jubilee was that of the restitution of all real
property. The purpose was to demonstrate that the earth is subject
basically to God’s law, and not to man’s desires: “for the land is mine:
for you are strangers and sojourners with me” (Lev. 25:23). God’s
specific legislation concerned the inalienability of Israel’s land
titles. It required the reversion of all hereditary property to the
family that originally possessed it and the reestablishment of the
initial arrangement regarding God’s division of the land. It did not
teach either the socialistic economic theory that a person is entitled
to the ownership of goods on the basis of his need (in this case, the
possession of the land that produced his living), or the free-enterprise
system that allows an unlimited expansion of private property. On the
contrary, it established a fixed title to the property assigned by God
(cf. Dt. 21:16, on inheritance), so that the implied humanitarian factor
is given a deeper theological foundation. It should also be noted that
the restitution of Israel’s property appears to have typical
significance, for the possession of the land by its individual Hebrew
owners served as an acted prophecy of the blessings of the messianic age
(Isa. 61:1–3). The Year of Jubilee foreshadows the restoration of all
that has been perverted by mankind’s sin, the establishment of the true
liberty of the children of God, and the deliverance of creation from the
bondage of corruption to which it has been subjected on account of human
depravity (Lk. 4:17–21; Rom. 8:19–23).

III. Resulting Property Values
==============================

Since the institution of the Jubilee Year excluded the possibility of
selling any piece of land permanently (Lev. 25:23), it necessarily
became the means of fixing the prices of real property (vv 15f; cf.
25–28). The same rule applied to dwelling houses outside the walled
cities (v 31) and also to the houses owned by Levites, although they
were built within walled cities (v 32). In the same manner the value of
Hebrew bondsmen was to vary according to the proximity of the Jubilee
Year (vv 47–54), and in 27:17–25 a similar arrangement related to such
lands as were “sanctified unto Yahweh.” In all these cases the original
owner was at liberty to redeem his own property or to have it redeemed
by some of his nearest relatives (25:25–27, 29, 48ff; 27:19; Jer. 32:8;
cf. ancient Babylonian parallels, B. Meissner, *Beiträge zum
altbabylonischen Privatrecht* [1893], pp. 40ff). He might take action at
any time, at a price proportionate to the time lapse until the Jubilee.

IV. History
===========

After the initial revelation of the Jubilee law (Lev. 25:8–34), the Year
of Jubilee is mentioned historically as a living feature within
Israelite society (Nu. 36:4). Its first observance seems to have
occurred after Joshua’s entrance into Canaan (cf. Lev. 25:2), or midway
in the judgeship of Othniel (Jgs. 3:11). No reference, however, to such
a celebration appears in Scripture (apart from the idealistic
anticipation of Ezk. 46:17), though this hardly justifies its usual
relegation by liberal criticism to an assumed postexilic Priestly Code
of arbitrary and utopian dreams (cf. R. H. Pfeiffer, *Religion in the
OT* [1961], p. 187). The influence of the Jubilee law upon the culture
of Israel, with the permanent property rights that it guaranteed, helps
to explain the conduct of Naboth and Ahab, ca 855 b.c. (1 K. 21:3f; cf.
22:1), and such prophetic rebukes as Isa. 5:8; Mic. 2:2. These very
passages, however, testify to a contemporary neglect (cf. W. Eichrodt’s
contention for its early date, *Theology of the OT*, I [Engtr 1961],
96). Even as Israel’s sabbatic years were not observed during the
centuries before the Exile, so also the Jubilees were disregarded. But
while the former were reinstated in the postexilic era (Neh. 10:31; 1
Macc. 6:49, 53; cf. frequent mention by Josephus), the latter are never
mentioned again (cf. *Ant.* iii.12.3 [280–86]), living on only in
principle and in the eschatological hope of the people of God.

***Bibliography***.—*Jew.Enc. X, sv* “Sabbatical Year and Jubilee” (J.
D. Eisenstein); A. Jirku, *Reinhold-Seeberg-Festschrift* (1929), II,
169ff; W. G. Moorehead, *Studies in the Mosaic Institutions* (ca 1895);
R. G. North, *Sociology of the Biblical Jubilee* (1954); G. Oehler,
*Theology of the OT* (Engtr 1883), pp. 342–45; J. B. Payne, *Theology of
the Older Testament* (1962), pp. 400f.

J. B. Payne

