---
title: "Leper"
pdf: "leper.pdf"
description: "A leper suffers from a specific form of mycobacterial infection that was dreaded in antiquity and that until A.D. 1960 was regarded as intractable and incurable."
template: topic.jade
---


<sup>Leper</sup>

From International Standard Bible Encyclopedia

**Leper**lepʹər; **LEPROSY** lepʹrə-sē [Heb *ṣāra˒aṯ*; Gk *lépra*].

A leper suffers from a specific form of mycobacterial infection that was
dreaded in antiquity and that until a.d. 1960 was regarded as
intractable and incurable. To reduce the psychological trauma reported
by sufferers, the condition has been renamed “Hansen’s disease,” after
G. A. Hansen, who discovered the causative organism (see III below).

I. Terminology
==============

Both ancient and modern writings show considerable confusion about the
terminology for leprosy. Heb *ṣāra˒aṯ* is of uncertain provenance and
meaning, having been related variously to the roots for “strike,”
“become disfigured in the skin,” “erupt,” and “hornet.” Since the
ailment is given more prominence than any other in Scripture, the
inability to determine the term’s derivation is very unfortunate. In
Lev. 13 *ṣāra˒aṯ* is evidently used in a technical sense, describing a
class of pathological conditions. If related to Akk *ṣinnītu*,
“eruption,” the root can describe any type of cutaneous eruptive lesion,
including clinical leprosy. The comprehensive nature of *ṣāra˓saṯ* is
indicated by its application not only to human pathology but also to
molds, mildews, and mineral efflorescence in the walls of buildings or
on fabrics.

The LXX translates *ṣāra˒aṯ* by the comprehensive term *lépra*, which
for the Greeks signified an ailment that resulted in a scaly condition
of the skin. *Lépra* was associated by Herodotus (i. 138) and
Hippocrates (who named it the “Phoenician disease”) with *leúkē* a
cutaneous affliction characterized by a localized absence of pigment,
probably the modern leucoderma. Galen (a.d. 130–201) and some Greek
medical writers before him employed *eléphas* or *elephantíasis* for a
more serious cutaneous disease that seems to have corresponded closely
to modern clinical leprosy. The Romans generally preferred the Greek
term *lépra* to the more cumbersome *elephantiasis Graecorum* (“of the
Greeks”), and the Vulgate uses *lépra* to render Heb *ṣāra˒aṯ*. Hence
“leprosy” occurs in later English versions of the Bible.

Modern versions have difficulty rendering the obscure Hebrew terms in
Lev. 13, which contains diagnostic material intended for priests of the
2nd millennium b.c. In v 2, e.g., Heb *ś*<sup>*e*</sup>*˒ēṯ* (Gk *oulé̄*)
is translated “rising” in the AV, “swelling” in the RSV, and
“discoloration” in the NEB. For Heb *sappaḥaṯ* (Gk *sēmasía*) in the
same verse, the AV has “scab,” the RSV “eruption,” and the NEB
“pustule.” Heb *bahereṯ* (Gk *tēlaúgēma*) is variously rendered “bright
spot” (AV), “spot” (RSV), and “inflammation” (NEB). Particularly
unfortunate is the NEB’s use of “malignant skin-disease” for *ṣāra˓aṯ*,
which is a comprehensive Hebrew term describing a variety of skin
afflictions. Some of these were benign, and the priest could pronounce
the sufferer clean. Only one form of *ṣara˓aṯ*, a chronic, spreading
affliction, was deemed malignant by the diagnostic procedure and merited
the strictures of vv 45f.

II. Antiquity of Leprosy
========================

This dreaded disease is supposed to have existed in India and China from
ca 4000 b.c., but this dating is very difficult to establish factually.
Kinnier Wilson suggested that leprosy may have been the incurable skin
condition mentioned in an Old Babylonian omen tablet, since the symptoms
include loss of skin pigment, odor, and an apparent outbreak of papules
(J. V. Kinnier Wilson, *Revue d’assyriologie et d’archéologie
orientale*, 60 [1966], 47). Although serious skin diseases were known to
both the Sumerians and the Babylonians, it is impossible to ascertain
whether any of the technical terms in the various texts refer to
leprosy. But probably the Mesopotamians did become familiar with leprosy
during the 3rd millennium b.c.

The disease seems to have been endemic in Egypt from at least the Old
Kingdom period (ca 2700–2400 b.c.), and if the term *ukhedu* in the
Ebers Papyrus indicates a form of clinical leprosy, then the ailment
would have been familiar to the Egyptians before 1500 b.c. *Ukhedu* does
seem to describe a malignant disease, but the identification with
leprosy is not definite. A malformation in the upper jaw of an Egyptian
mummy, ca 1400 b.c., was once thought to be an instance of leprosy but
is now regarded as the result of chronic gingival infection. Some
writers have expressed surprise at the paucity of cases of leprosy found
in Egyptian mummies, since Lucretius (99–55 b.c.) claimed that *eléphas*
(leprosy) originated in Egypt. Most probably, however, leprous Egyptians
died in some isolated place and were never mummified.

Leprosy was already becoming globally distributed in the 7th cent b.c.,
and by ca 250 b.c. it was being reported by Greek physicians. It spread
slowly west across Europe, and by ca 40 b.c. it had entered the British
Isles.

In view of the lengthy tradition attaching to the existence of the
disease, it seems ill-advised to suppose that the Hebrews became
acquainted with the affliction only after they had been in sedentary
occupation of Canaan for some time. Liberal writers who accept a
postexilic date for Leviticus to demonstrate that *ṣāra˓aṯ* had nothing
to do with clinical leprosy are actually working against their own
theoretical postulates, since the later that Leviticus is dated, the
more probable it is that the chronic form of *ṣāra˓aṯ* was Hansen’s
disease, which was unquestionably in Palestine by the 4th cent b.c.

III. Symptomatology and Diagnosis
=================================

The cause of leprosy is the minute rod-shaped organism *Mycobacterium
leprae*, identified by the scientist G. A. Hansen in 1871–1873. (As his
terminology indicates, Hansen thought that the infecting agent is a
fungus, but it is now known to be a bacillus or bacterium.) Hansen’s
organism is similar to Koch’s bacillus *Mycobacterium tuberculosis*
(which causes tuberculosis); indeed, the two bacilli are possibly of
common origin, having become different through mutation.

To speak of leprosy symptomatology is to raise some fundamental
philosophical issues related to all of human pathology. In the strictest
sense there are no such entities as “diseases”; a disease is actually a
collection of symptoms that are given a designation for convenience. One
must realize that the designation may describe only the principal
symptoms, and that a person need not have all the attributed symptoms to
have the disease. An equally significant observation is that the
pattern, distribution, and character of some diseases have changed over
the centuries. Thus Browne (p. 8) properly warned about the dangers of
retrospectively diagnosing diseases mentioned in ancient literature,
especially if the terminology is indeterminate.

As already noted, Heb *ṣāra˓aṯ* in Lev. 13–14, although technical and
obscure, is known to denote a variety of related conditions (cf. the
broad pathological and metaphorical uses of “cancer”). The symptoms of
*ṣāra˓aṯ* are detailed in Lev. 13 so that the Hebrew priest-physician
could make a differential diagnosis. Since medical legislation in the
Torah has a preventative nature, the priest as diagnostician functioned
as a health officer more than the Babylonian or Egyptian
priest-physician did. The affliction that the Hebrew priest would
carefully inspect could have arisen spontaneously (vv 2–6), or after a
prodromal interval of unspecified length (vv 7f). It could have
succeeded a furuncle, a carbuncle (vv 18–23), or a burn (vv 24–28), or
it could have developed upon the beard, the head, or elsewhere on the
body (vv 29–44). Preliminary symptoms could include the presence of
subcutaneous swellings or nodules (*ś*<sup>*e*</sup>*˒ēṯ*), a cuticular
scab (*sappaḥaṯ*), and whitish-red spots or reddish areas of skin
(*bahereṯ*).

If a person with one or more of these symptoms that had turned into a
leprous disease presented himself to a priest (13:2), the priest
pronounced him leprous after inspection if the local hair had turned
white (*leucotrichia*) and if the affliction seemed to have penetrated
the skin (v 3). If the person did not have the last two symptoms, he was
quarantined seven days, and then seven more if the symptoms showed no
development (vv 4–6); his condition was diagnosed as an eruption (Heb
*mispaḥaṯ*). *Mispaḥaṯ* appears to be a general term for the slight
pustulation occurring in many of the dermatoses.

Another nonmalignant form of *ṣāra˓aṯ* covered the person from head to
foot (13:13). This condition could not have been Hansen’s disease, which
seldom covers the entire body and never makes the skin white. The
condition would probably have been psoriasis, in which round reddish
patches covered with whitish scales erupt on the scalp, elbows, knees,
and back. This common affliction manifests itself in several forms and
is sometimes extremely resistant to treatment. Even more probably the
sufferer was the victim of vitiligo (acquired leucoderma), a condition
marked by white patches on the skin characterized by deficiency of
pigment. The body chemistry involved has not yet been explained
satisfactorily, but the affliction, like psoriasis, is neither
infectious nor harmful.

If, however, the Hebrew sufferer had *bāśār ḥay* (presumably to be
translated “raw flesh”), then the condition would no longer have been
thought benign (13:14). Apparently ulceration was occurring, as in
developed cases of nodular leprosy. If the ulceration or inflammation
was local and transitory, the sufferer could be pronounced free of
*ṣāra˓aṯ* and therefore would be ceremonially clean again. The extent of
cuticular penetration governed the seriousness of the condition, as
though the developing pathology was being viewed from inside rather than
from outside the skin. This perspective would help explain the decision
that any pale or reddish swelling beneath the skin was malignant. The RV
translation “deeper than the skin” may thus indicate cutaneous nodules
that were about to erupt and form the fetid sores seen in modern
lepromatous leprosy. Persistently bright-pink patches of skin (Heb
*bahereṯ*) were a symptom of leprosy; they are sometimes seen on modern
lepers.

If the site of a previous staphylococcal infection was ulcerated or
inflamed (13:18f), the symptoms of leucotrichia, cuticular penetration,
and the spread of infection determined the seriousness of the condition.
The swelling in question (Heb *š*<sup>*e*</sup>*ḥîn*; RSV “boil”; NEB
“fester”) is of uncertain nature, but it could have been a furuncle, a
carbuncle, an ulcer, a keloid, or erysipelas on the site of a boil.

The mention of a burn on the skin (13:24–28) is interesting in view of
the medical contention that anesthetic patches are not recorded in this
chapter. Burns occur commonly among lepers when cutaneous nerve endings
have been made insensitive by the disease. Infection resulting in pus
formation or ulcers can have serious consequences if left untreated.
Verses 24–28 seem to refer to infection of a burn, perhaps sustained
because of the occurrence of maculo-anesthetic leprosy; the condition
was pronounced malignant if the reddish-white area had spread and the
local hair had changed color.

The seriousness of a disease of the scalp or beard (Heb *neṯeq*; Gk
*thraúsma*) was governed by the degree of skin penetration as well as by
the amount of hair lost and a change in hair color from dark to coppery
(RSV “yellow,” 13:29–37). These conditions, incidentally, are seen
periodically in modern lepers and are attributed by some medical
authorities to vitamin or protein deficiency. The condition in vv 29–37,
however, seems to be ringworm. This fungus attacks various areas of the
skin and is extremely irritant in nature. It can be contracted from
cattle. Hair loss accompanied by a pinkish disease spot indicates
chronic leprosy, however.

Dull white spots on the body (13:38f) were not regarded as malignant;
eruption (Heb *bōhaq*; Gk *alphós*) was probably vitiligo. In a
well-developed case of vitiligo the skin exhibits complete loss of
pigment, in contrast to leprosy, the lesions of which are never white.

Leviticus 13:47–59 treats “leprous diseases” in cloth and leather
garments. The expression “warp or woof” probably refers to the woven or
fabricated material as a whole, which was judged diseased if it appeared
greenish or reddish. Fungi, mildew, iron mold, or dampness could be the
responsible or facilitating agents. Even buildings could be affected by
“leprosy” (14:34–53), which was apparently dry rot or mineral
efflorescence affecting stone walls.

The diagnostic principles in Leviticus were deemed sufficient both to
establish the nature of the various types of *ṣāra˓aṯ* and to provide
for malignant cases. Such sufficiency was very important, if only
because the malignant *ṣāra˓aṯ* resembled other dermatoses in so many
respects, especially in the initial stages of the ailment, just as
Hansen’s disease does today. Modern clinicians have similarly
established cardinal signs of leprosy, namely, localized hypopigmented
patches, loss of sensations particularly of temperature or touch, and
the presence of *M. leprae* bacilli taken from skin lesions. If a person
has more than one of these signs, he or she is deemed to be a leper.
Other experts reduce these signs to two, namely, loss or impairment of
cutaneous sensation regardless of the presence or absence of a skin
patch, and the thickening of nerves. These basic signs indicate the two
principal types of leprosy — lepromatous and nonlepromatous, the latter
including tuberculoid, maculo-anesthetic, and polyneuritic varieties. In
addition, an intermediate leprosy group accommodates borderline and
indeterminate cases.

The prodromal symptoms include vague pains in limbs and joints, with
intermittent fever. The incubation period can vary between a few months
and thirty years, according to some leprologists, but when the eruptive
stage occurs the disease begins to assume its special character. In the
severe form, lepromatous leprosy, a hypopigmented patch of skin or
numbness of skin occur first, although ulcers, nasal blockage, and other
symptoms may anticipate the morbid skin changes. Lepromatous (nodular)
leprosy is the most severe form, with the nodules occurring in the skin,
mucous membranes, and perhaps subcutaneous tissues. Sometimes the
nodules ulcerate and discharge bacilli in large quantities. Many of the
peripheral nerves are affected, as are internal organs such as the
spleen, liver, lymph nodes, and adrenal glands. Lesions often occur in
the nasal mucosa, the larynx, and the eyes. In diffusely infiltrated
lepromatous leprosy the skin of almost the entire body may thicken and
redden; some hair loss commonly occurs, too. The hypopigmented lesions
of macular lepromatous leprosy have smooth, reddish surfaces with little
loss of sensation and poorly defined margins. By comparison,
nonlepromatous leprosy is milder in character. Tuberculoid leprosy has
few lesions, which may be hypopigmented or erythematous, with dry, rough
surfaces generally occurring. The lesions often affect peripheral
nerves, causing a loss of tactile sensation except occasionally on
facial patches. Like sufferers from tuberculoid leprosy,
maculo-anesthetic patients are normally noninfective but exhibit
hypopigmented skin lesions that are more or less insensitive to touch.
Polyneuritic leprosy only involves peripheral nerves, which thicken and
sometimes necrose when nodules form and become abscesses. Frequently in
advanced stages motor paralysis occurs.

The fourteen-day quarantine for suspected malignant *ṣāra˓aṯ* has been
quite correctly regarded as much too short for clinical leprosy to
develop. But it would have allowed certain differential diagnoses, such
as scabies or ringworm, to be made. Thus the quarantine would have
helped to safeguard the interests of priests and patients alike, since
the diagnosis of leprosy even today can be difficult in the early stages
of the disease. No doubt ancient lepers, like many of their modern
counterparts, usually concealed themselves when they suspected their
illness. They probably would have sought a diagnosis only when the
symptoms were already well advanced; note that in Lev. 13:2 the patient,
his friends, or his relatives seem already to have made a tentative
diagnosis. The abysmal terror associated with leprosy from ancient times
was an Eastern rather than a Western phenomenon; the modern
reductionists who fail to find any connection between Hansen’s disease
and the malign condition of Lev. 13–14 have been unable to suggest any
substitute ailment that would have inspired such abject dread.

IV. Treatment
=============

In contrast to modern practice, no herbal remedies or therapeutic
measures were prescribed by the Hebrew priest-physicians. Instead, the
person diagnosed as having malignant *ṣāra˒aṯ* was banished from society
(Lev. 13:45f) as a hygienic precaution. He had to proclaim by his
appearance and actions his social and religious uncleanness; thus he was
prevented from returning and communicating the infection to members of
what was meant to be a holy community. There is no record from the
ancient Near East of any effort to determine whether leprosy was
communicable.

Only if divine healing occurred (cf. Nu. 12:9–15) could the sufferer
apply to the priest for a medical discharge. When his healing had been
established, he still had to satisfy certain social and religious
requirements to be pronounced clean. An appropriate ritual was provided
(14:10–32); the elaborate detail suggests that it was indeed used on
occasion.

It must be noted that concepts of cleanness or uncleanness have no real
bearing upon the meaning, etiology, or pathology of the term *ṣāra˓aṯ*.
The covenant community of Israel was essentially a religious one (Ex.
19:6), and any form of uncleanness or defilement, including that of
malignant *ṣāra˓aṯ*, was expressly prohibited. Accordingly, specific
cleansing and purifying procedures were followed for mildewed or rotting
garments (Lev. 13:47–58) and for buildings similarly affected
(14:33–53). These rituals were mandatory when prescribed by the priests,
because they carried the full sanction of the law (14:54–57).

Although the leper was regarded under the law as ceremonially unclean,
in Scripture leprosy was never considered a sin. To that extent leprosy
was merely one of a class of conditions that rendered a person ritually
unclean, the main differences being the social abhorrence of the
condition and its duration. As with all other forms of healing, the
leper’s restoration to health was regarded in Scripture as a token of
God’s grace, and thus the concept of spontaneous remission independent
of divine activity had no place in biblical thought.

V. In the Old Testament
=======================

The affliction that God imposed upon Moses as a sign (Ex. 4:6) was
evidently not chronic *ṣāra˓aṯ*, which, as has been noted, is never
white. It may have been leucoderma or psoriasis and was possibly the
same affliction as Miriam’s (Nu. 12:9–16). In both texts the gloss
“white as snow” (Heb *kaššāleg̱*, lit “like snow”) differentiates this
*ṣāra˒aṯ* from the chronic form. Naaman (2 K. 5) also does not seem to
have been afflicted with Hansen’s disease, since he lived and worked
among his own people. After Naaman’s healing the affliction was
transferred to Gehazi (vv 19–27), a gloss again occurs in the Hebrew
text to show that the disease was not Hansen’s disease, but perhaps
scabies or vitiligo (leucoderma). In the early stages of the latter
hypopigmented patches of skin develop and can easily be mistaken for
lepromatous leprosy, particularly if the observer has no desire for
close contact with the sufferer.

The four leprous men at the gate of Samaria most probably constituted a
small “leper colony” living together for mutual support (2 K. 7:3–10);
there seems no reason for doubting that they had Hansen’s disease.
Uzziah (2 Ch. 26:19–21) was “smitten” (Heb *nāg̱a˓*; the related noun
*neg̱a˓* is sometimes used synonymously with *ṣāra˓aṯ*) with an ailment
that the priests judged to be leprosy, and accordingly he remained in
isolation until his death. Browne (p. 13) dismissed the suggestion that
Uzziah had sudden hyperemia in a leprous lesion of the forehead that was
otherwise inconspicuous. The perpetual quarantine strongly implies
chronic *ṣāra˓aṯ*.

*Ṣāra˓aṯ* could also be invoked as a curse upon someone (cf. 2 S.
3:28f).

VI. In the New Testament
========================

Although medical and other writers have doubted that OT references to
*ṣāra˓aṯ* ever indicate Hansen’s disease, it is clear that in Palestine
during the NT period clinical leprosy was a reality. The Israelite
priests still used the diagnostic criteria of Leviticus (Mt. 8:1–4; Mk.
1:40–44; etc.), and thus “cleansing” is often mentioned in connection
with healings recorded in the Gospels. The Gospels’ use of “leper” and
“leprosy” seems less technical than that of the law, but there is little
doubt even from the scanty NT descriptions of the personal and social
plight of the sufferers that they were predominantly victims of Hansen’s
disease.

Jesus and His disciples healed persons with leprosy, but the symptoms
associated with that discase are mentioned only in Luke. On their
mission of witness the Twelve (cf. Mt. 10:1, 8) were to anticipate the
priesthood of all believers by cleansing lepers. The account of the ten
lepers (Lk. 17:11–19) uses “cleanse” and “heal” interchangeably, and the
believing Samaritan appears as much under the covenant of divine grace
as his Jewish companions were. This coterie was most probably a small
colony of people suffering from Hansen’s disease; doubtless several such
groups were scattered about Palestine in NT times. The leper of Lk.
5:12–15 has been considered a victim of a dermatosis other than Hansen’s
disease, possibly vitiligo, but the description “full of leprosy” (Gk
*plḗrēs lépras*) seems instead to indicate a chronic condition, quite
possibly clinical leprosy. Simon the leper (Mt. 26:6 par Mk. 14:3)
perhaps had only vitiligo or patches of hypopigmented macules, since he
was in close contact with society.

***Bibliography.***—J. Lowe, *Leprosy Review,* 18 (1947), 54; F. C.
Lendrum, *American Journal of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene,* 1 (1952),
999; R. G. Cochrane, *Biblical Leprosy: A Suggested Interpretation* (2nd
ed 1963); O. F. Skinsnes, *Leprosy Review,* 35 (1964), pp. 21, 35, 105,
115, 175; TDNT, IV, sv λέπρα, λεπρός (Michaelis); V.
Moeller-Christensen, *History of Syphilis and Leprosy* (1969); J.
Milgrom, *Encyclopedia Judaica,* XI (1971), 33–36; R. H. Thangaraj, ed,
*Textbook of Leprosy* (1975); DNTT, II, 463–66; J. Wilkinson, SJT, 30
(1977), 153–169; 31 (1978), 153–166; R. David, *Mystery of the Mummies*
(1978); S. G. Browne, *Leprosy in the Bible* (2nd ed 1979); G. J.
Wenham, *Leviticus* (NICOT, 1979); V. Moeller-Christensen, *Leprosy
Changes of the Skull* (1979); R. K. Harrison, *Leviticus* (*Tyndale* OT
comms 1981).

R. K. Harrison

