---
title: "Leprosy"
pdf: "leprosy.pdf"
description: "a study from the Old Testament on how leprosy was identified and treated. An exposition of Leviticus 13 and 14, Commentary on the Old Testament, by C. F. Keil and F. Delitzsch"
tableOfContents: true
template: topic.jade
---

Commentary on Leviticus 13 and 14, from ***Commentary on the Old
Testament***, C. F. Keil and F. Delitzsch

Leviticus 13

**Leviticus 13 and 14.** Leprosy.—The law for leprosy, the observance of
which is urged upon the people again in Deut. 24:8, 9, treats, in the
*first* place, of leprosy in men: (*a*) in its dangerous forms when
appearing either on the skin (vv. 2–28), or on the head and beard (vv.
29–37); (*b*) in harmless forms (vv. 38 and 39); and (*c*) when
appearing on a bald head (vv. 40–44). To this there are added
instructions for the removal of the leper from the society of other men
(vv. 45 and 46). It treats, *secondly,* of leprosy in linen, woollen,
and leather articles, and the way to treat them (vv. 47–59); *thirdly,*
of the purification of persons recovered from leprosy (Leviticus
14:1–32); and *fourthly,* of leprosy in houses and the way to remove it
(vv. 33–53).—The laws for leprosy in man relate exclusively to the
so-called white leprosy, λεύκὴ λέπρα, *lepra,* which probably existed at
that time in hither Asia alone, not only among the Israelites and Jews
(Num. 12:10ff.; 2 Sam. 3:29; 2 Kings 5:27; 7:3; 15:5; Matt. 8:2, 3;
10:8; 11:5; 26:6, etc.), but also among the Syrians (2 Kings 5:1ff.),
and which is still found in that part of the world, most frequently in
the countries of the Lebanon and Jordan and in the neighbourhood of
Damascus, in which city there are three hospitals for lepers (*Seetzen,*
pp. 277, 278), and occasionally in Arabia (*Niebuhr, Arab.* pp. 135ff.)
and Egypt; though at the present time the pimply leprosy, *lepra
tuberosa s. articulorum* (the leprosy of the joints), is more prevalent
in the East, and frequently occurs in Egypt in the lower extremities in
the form of elephantiasis. Of the white leprosy (called *Lepra
Mosaica*), which is still met with in Arabia sometimes, where it is
called *Baras, Trusen* gives the following description: “Very
frequently, even for years before the actual outbreak of the disease
itself, white, yellowish spots are seen lying deep in the skin,
particularly on the genitals, in the face, on the forehead, or in the
joints. They are without feeling, and sometimes cause the hair to assume
the same colour as the spots. These spots afterwards pierce through the
cellular tissue, and reach the muscles and bones. The hair becomes white
and woolly, and at length falls off; hard gelatinous swellings are
formed in the cellular tissue; the skin gets hard, rough, and seamy,
lymph exudes from it, and forms large scabs, which fall off from time to
time, and under these there are often offensive running sores. The nails
then swell, curl up, and fall off; *entropium* is formed, with bleeding
gums, the nose stopped up, and a considerable flow of saliva … The
senses become dull, the patient gets thin and weak, colliquative
diarrhea sets in, and incessant thirst and burning fever terminate his
sufferings” (*Krankheiten d. alten Hebr.* p. 165).

**Leviticus 13:2–28.** *The symptoms of leprosy, whether proceeding
directly from eruptions in the skin, or caused by a boil or burn.*—Vv.
2–8. *The first case:* “When a man shall have in the skin of his flesh
(body) a raised spot or scab, or a bright spot.” שְׂאֵת, a lifting up
(Gen. 4:7, etc.), signifies here an elevation of the skin in some part
of the body, a raised spot like a pimple. סַפַּחַת, an eruption, scurf,
or scab, from סָפַח to pour out, “a pouring out as it were from the
flesh or skin” (*Knobel*). בַּהֶרֶת, from בָּהַר, in the Arabic and
Chaldee to shine, is a bright swollen spot in the skin. If ether of
these signs became “a spot of leprosy,” the person affected was to be
brought to the priest, that he might examine the complaint. The term
*zaraath,* from an Arabic word signifying to strike down or scourge, is
applied to leprosy as a scourge of God, and in the case of men it always
denotes the white leprosy, which the Arabs call *baras.* נֶגַע, a stroke
(lit., “stroke of leprosy”), is applied not only to the spot attacked by
the leprosy, the leprous mole (vv. 3, 29–32, 42, etc.), but to the
persons and even to things affected with leprosy (vv. 4, 12, 13, 31, 50,
55).

**Leviticus 13:3.** A person so diseased was to be pronounced unclean,
(*a*) if the hair of his head had turned white on the mole, i.e., if the
dark hair which distinguished the Israelites had become white; and (*b*)
if the appearance of the mole was deeper than the skin of the flesh,
i.e., if the spot, where the mole was, appeared depressed in comparison
with the rest of the skin. In that case it was leprosy. These signs are
recognised by modern observers (e.g., *Hensler*); and among the Arabs
leprosy is regarded as curable if the hair remains black upon the white
spots, but incurable if it becomes whitish in colour.

**Leviticus 13:4–6.** But if the bright spot was white upon the skin,
and its appearance was not deeper than the skin, and the place therefore
was not sunken, nor the hair turned white, the priest was to shut up the
leper, i.e., preclude him from intercourse with other men, for seven
days, and on the seventh day examine him again. If he then found that
the mole still stood, i.e., remained unaltered, “in his eyes,” or in his
view, that it had not spread any further, he was to shut him up for
seven days more. And if, on further examination upon the seventh day, he
found that the mole had become paler, had lost its brilliant whiteness,
and had not spread, he was to declare him clean, for it was a scurf,
i.e., a mere skin eruption, and not true leprosy. The person who had
been pronounced clean, however, was to wash his clothes, to change
himself from even the appearance of leprosy, and then to be clean.

**Leviticus 13:7, 8.** But if the scurf had spread upon the skin “after
his (first) appearance before the priest with reference to his
cleansing,” i.e., to be examined concerning his purification; and if the
priest notice this on his second appearance, he was to declare him
unclean, for in that case it was leprosy.

**Leviticus 13:9–17.** The *second case* (vv. 9–17): if the leprosy
broke out without previous eruptions.

**Leviticus 13:9ff.** “If a mole of leprosy is in a man, and the priest
to whom he is brought sees that there is a white rising in the skin, and
this has turned the hair white, and there is raw (proud) flesh upon the
elevation, it is an old leprosy.” The apodosis to vv. 9 and 10 commences
with v. 11. בָּשָׂר חַי living, i.e., raw, proud flesh. מִחְיָה the
preservation of life (Gen. 45:5), sustenance (Judg. 6:4); here, in vv.
10 and 24, it signifies life in the sense of that which shows life, not
a blow or spot (נֶגַע, from מָחָה to strike), as it is only in a
geographical sense that the verb has this signification, viz., to strike
against, or reach as far as (Num. 34:11). If the priest found that the
evil was an old, long-standing leprosy, he was to pronounce the man
unclean, and not first of all to shut him up, as there was no longer any
doubt about the matter.

**Leviticus 13:12, 13.** If, on the other hand, the leprosy broke out
blooming on the skin, and covered the whole of the skin from head to
foot “with regard to the whole sight of the eyes of the priest,” i.e.,
as far as his eyes could see, the priest was to pronounce the person
clean. “He has turned quite white,” i.e., his dark body has all become
white. The breaking out of the leprous matter in this complete and rapid
way upon the surface of the whole body was the crisis of the disease;
the diseased matter turned into a scurf, which died away and then fell
off.

**Leviticus 13:14.** “But in the day when proud flesh appears upon him,
he is unclean, … the proud flesh is unclean; it is leprosy.” That is to
say, if proud flesh appeared after the body had been covered with a
white scurf, with which the diseased matter had apparently exhausted
itself, the disease was not removed, and the person affected with it was
to be pronounced unclean.

The *third case:* if the leprosy proceeded from an abscess which had
been cured. In v. 18 בָּשָׂר is first of all used absolutely, and then
resumed with בֹּו, and the latter again is more closely defined in
בְּעֹורֹו: “if there arises in the flesh, in him, in his skin, an
abscess, and (it) is healed, and there arises in the place of the
abscess a white elevation, or a spot of a reddish white, he (the person
so affected) shall appear at the priest’s.”

**Leviticus 13:20.** If the priest found the appearance of the diseased
spot lower than the surrounding skin, and the hair upon it turned white,
he was to pronounce the person unclean. “It is a mole of leprosy: it has
broken out upon the abscess.”

**Leviticus 13:21ff.** But if the hair had not turned white upon the
spot, and there was no depression on the skin, and it (the spot) was
pale, the priest was to shut him up for seven days. If the mole spread
upon the skin during this period, it was leprosy; but if the spot stood
in its place, and had not spread, it was צָרֶבֶת הַשְּׁחִין, “the
closing of the abscess:” literally “the burning;” here, that part of the
skin or flesh which has been burnt up or killed by the inflammation or
abscess, and gradually falls off as scurf (*Knobel*).

**Leviticus 13:24–28.** The *fourth case* (vv. 24–28): if there was a
burnt place upon the skin of the flesh (מִכְוַת־אֵשׁ, a spot where he
had burnt himself with fire, the scar of a burn), and the “life of the
scar”—i.e., the skin growing or forming upon the scar (see v.
10)—“becomes a whitish red, or white spot,” i.e., if it formed itself
into a bright swollen spot. This was to be treated exactly like the
previous case. שְׂאֵת הַמִּכְוָה (v. 28), rising of the scar of the
burn, i.e., a rising of the flesh and skin growing out of the scar of
the burn.

**Leviticus 13:29–37.** *Leprosy upon the head or chin.*—If the priest
saw a mole upon the head or chin of a man or woman, the appearance of
which was deeper than the skin, and on which the hair was yellow (צָהֹב
golden, reddish, fox-colour) and thin, he was to regard it as נֶתֶק.
Leprosy on the head or chin is called נֶתֶק, probably from נָתַק to
pluck or tear, from its plucking out the hair, or causing it to fall
off; like κνήφη, the itch, from κνάω, to itch or scratch, and *scabies,*
from *scabere.* But if he did not observe these two symptoms, if there
was no depression of the skin, and the hair was black and not yellow, he
was to shut up the person affected for seven days. In שָׁחֹר אֵין בֹּו
(v. 31) there is certainly an error of the text: either שׁחר must be
retained and אין dropped, or שָׁחֹר must be altered into צָהֹב,
according to v. 37. The latter is probably the better of the two.

**Leviticus 13:32ff.** If the mole had not spread by that time, and the
two signs mentioned were not discernible, the person affected was to
shave himself, but not to shave the *nethek,* the eruption or scurfy
place, and the priest was to shut him up for seven days more, and then
to look whether any alteration had taken place; and if not, to pronounce
him clean, whereupon he was to wash his clothes (see v. 6).

**Leviticus 13:35, 36.** But if the eruption spread even after his
purification, the priest, on seeing this, was not to look for yellow
hair. “He is unclean:” that is to say, he was to pronounce him unclean
without searching for yellow hairs; the spread of the eruption was a
sufficient proof of the leprosy.

**Leviticus 13:37.** But if, on the contrary, the eruption stood (see v.
5), and black hair grew out of it, he was healed, and the person
affected was to be declared clean.

**Leviticus 13:38, 39.** *Harmless leprosy.*—This broke out upon the
skin of the body in בֶּהָרֹת plaits, “white rings.” If these were dull
or a pale white, it was the harmless *bohak,* ἀλφός (LXX), which did not
defile, and which even the Arabs, who still call it *bahak,* consider
harmless. It is an eruption upon the skin, appearing in somewhat
elevated spots or rings of inequal sizes and a pale white colour, which
do not change the hair; it causes no inconvenience, and lasts from two
months to two years.

**Leviticus 13:40–44.** *The leprosy of bald heads.*—קֵרֵחַ is a head
bald behind; גִּבֵּחַ, in front, “bald from the side, or edge of his
face, i.e., from the forehead and temples.” Bald heads of both kinds
were naturally clean.

**Leviticus 13:42ff.** But if a white reddish mole was formed upon the
bald place before or behind, it was leprosy breaking out upon it, and
was to be recognised by the fact that the rising of the mole had the
appearance of leprosy on the skin of the body. In that case the person
was unclean, and to be pronounced so by the priest. “On his head is his
plague of leprosy,” i.e., he has it in his head.

**Leviticus 13:45,46.** With regard to *the treatment of lepers,*
the lawgiver prescribed that they should wear mourning costume, rend
their clothes, leave the hair of their head in disorder (see at
Leviticus 10:6), keep the beard covered (Ezek. 24:17, 22), and cry
“Unclean, unclean,” that every one might avoid them for fear of being
defiled (Lam. 4:15); and as long as the disease lasted they were to
dwell apart outside the camp (Num. 5:2ff., 12:10ff., cf. 2 Kings 15:5;
7:3),<sup>33</sup> a rule which implies that the leper rendered others
unclean by contact. From this the Rabbins taught, that by merely
entering a house, a leper polluted everything within it (*Mishnah,*
Kelim i. 4; Negaim xiii. 11).

**Leviticus 13:47–59.** *Leprosy in linen, woollen, and leather fabrics
and clothes.*—The only wearing apparel mentioned in v. 47 is either
woollen or linen, as in Deut. 22:11, Hos. 2:7, Prov. 31:13; and among
the ancient Egyptians and ancient Greeks these were the materials
usually worn. In vv. 48ff. שְׁתִי and עֵרֶב, “the flax and the wool,”
i.e., for linen and woollen fabrics, are distinguished from clothes of
wool or flax. The rendering given to these words by the early
translators is στήμων and κρόκη, *stamen et subtegmen* (LXX, *Vulg.*),
i.e., warp and weft. The objection offered to this rendering, that warp
and weft could not be kept so separate from one another, that the one
could be touched and rendered leprous without the other, has been met by
*Gussetius* by the simple but correct remark, that the reference is to
the yarn prepared for the warp and weft, and not to the woven fabrics
themselves. So long as the yarn was not woven into a fabric, the
warp-yarn and weft-yarn might very easily be separated and lie in
different places, so that the one could be injured without the other. In
this case the yarn intended for weaving is distinguished from the woven
material, just as the leather is afterwards distinguished from
leather-work (v. 49). The signs of leprosy were, if the mole in the
fabric was greenish or reddish. In that case the priest was to shut up
the thing affected with leprosy for seven days, and then examine it. If
the mole had spread in the meantime, it was a “grievous leprosy.”
מַמְאֶרֶת, from מאר *irritavit, recruduit* (*vulnus*), is to be
explained, as it is by *Bochart,* as signifying *lepra exasperata.*
מַמְאֶרֶת הַנֶּגַע making the mole bad or angry; not, as *Gesenius*
maintains, from מאר = מרר *acerbum faciens,* i.e., *dolorem acerbum
excitans,* which would not apply to leprosy in fabrics and houses
(Leviticus 14:44), and is not required by Ezek. 28:24. All such fabrics
were to be burned as unclean.

**Leviticus 13:53ff.** If the mole had not spread during the seven days,
the priest was to cause the fabric in which the mole appeared to be
washed, and then shut it up for seven days more. If the mole did not
alter its appearance after being washed, even though it had not spread,
the fabric was unclean, and was therefore to be burned. “It is a
corroding in the back and front” (of the fabric of leather). פְּחֶתֶת,
from פָּחַת, in Syriac *fodit,* from which comes פַּחַת a pit, lit., a
digging: here a corroding depression. קָרַחַת a bald place in the front
or right side, גַּבַּחַת a bald place in the back or left side of the
fabric or leather.

**Leviticus 13:56.** But if the mole had turned pale by the seventh day
after the washing, it (the place of the mole) was to be separated (torn
off) from the clothes, leather or yarn, and then (as is added afterwards
in v. 58) the garment or fabric from which the mole had disappeared was
to be washed a second time, and would then be clean.

**Leviticus 13:57.** But if the mole appeared *again* in any such
garment or cloth, i.e., if it appeared again after this, it was a
leprosy bursting forth afresh, and the thing affected with it was to be
burned. Leprosy in linen and woollen fabrics or clothes, and in leather,
consisted in all probability in nothing but so-called mildew, which
commonly arises from damp and want of air, and consists, in the case of
linen, of round, partially coloured spots, which spread, and gradually
eat up the fabric, until it falls to pieces like mould. In leather the
mildew consists most strictly of “holes eaten in,” and is of a
“greenish, reddish, or whitish colour, according to the species of the
delicate cryptogami by which it has been formed.”

Leviticus 14
------------

**Leviticus 14:1–32.** *Purification of the leper,* after his recovery
from his disease. As leprosy, regarded as a decomposition of the vital
juices, and as putrefaction in a living body, was an image of death, and
like this introduced the same dissolution and destruction of life into
the corporeal sphere which sin introduced into the spiritual; and as the
leper for this very reason as not only excluded from the fellowship of
the sanctuary, but cut off from intercourse with the covenant nation
which was called to sanctification: the man, when recovered from
leprosy, was first of all to be received into the fellowship of the
covenant nation by a significant rite of purification, and then again to
be still further inducted into living fellowship with Jehovah in His
sanctuary. Hence the purification prescribed was divided into two acts,
separated from one another by an interval of seven days.

**Leviticus 14:2–8.** The first act (vv. 2–8) set forth the restoration
of the man, who had been regarded as dead, into the fellowship of the
living members of the covenant nation, and was therefore performed by
the priest outside the camp.

**Leviticus 14:2ff.** On the day of his purification the priest was to
examine the leper outside the camp; and if he found the leprosy cured
and gone (נִרְפָּא מִן, *const. praegnans,* healed away from, i.e.,
healed and gone away from), he was to send for (lit., order them to
fetch or bring) two living (חַיֹּות, with all the fulness of their vital
power) birds (without any precise direction as to the kind, not merely
sparrows), and (a piece of) cedar-wood and coccus (probably scarlet
wool, or a little piece of scarlet cloth), and hyssop (see at Ex.
12:22).

**Leviticus 14:5ff.** The priest was to have one of the birds killed
*into* an earthen vessel upon fresh water (water drawn from a fountain
or brook, Leviticus 15:13, Gen. 26:19), that is to say, slain in such a
manner that its blood should flow into the fresh water which was in a
vessel, and should mix with it. He was then to take the (other) live
bird, together with the cedar-wood, scarlet, and hyssop, and dip them
(these accompaniments) along with the bird into the blood of the one
which had been killed over the water. With this the person cured of
leprosy was to be sprinkled seven times (see Leviticus 4:6) and
purified; after which the living bird was to be “let loose upon the face
of the field,” i.e., to be allowed to fly away into the open country.
The two birds were symbols of the person to be cleansed. The one let
loose into the open country is regarded by all the commentators as a
symbolical representation of the fact, that the former leper was now
imbued with new vital energy, and released from the fetters of his
disease, and could now return in liberty again into the fellowship of
his countrymen. But if this is established, the other must also be a
symbol of the leper; and just as in the second the essential point in
the symbol was its escape to the open country, in the first the main
point must have been its death. Not, however, in this sense, that it was
a figurative representation of the previous condition of the leper; but
that, although it was no true sacrifice, since there was no sprinkling
of blood in connection with it, its bloody death was intended to show
that the leper would necessarily have suffered death on account of his
uncleanness, which reached to the very foundation of his life, if the
mercy of God had not delivered him from this punishment of sin, and
restored to him the full power and vigour of life again. The restitution
of this full and vigorous life was secured to him symbolically, by his
being sprinkled with the blood of the bird which was killed in is stead.
But because his liability to death had assumed a bodily form in the
uncleanness of leprosy, he was sprinkled not only with blood, but with
the flowing water of purification into which the blood had flowed, and
was thus purified from his mortal uncleanness. Whereas one of the birds,
however, had to lay down its life, and shed its blood for the person to
be cleansed, the other was made into a symbol of the person to be
cleansed by being bathed in the mixture of blood and water; and its
release, to return to its fellows and into its nest, represented his
deliverance from the ban of death which rested upon leprosy, and his
return to the fellowship of his own nation. This signification of the
rite serves to explain not only the appointment of birds for the
purpose, since free unfettered movement in all directions could not be
more fittingly represented by anything than by birds, which are
distinguished from all other animals by their freedom and rapidity of
motion, but also the necessity for their being alive and clean, viz., to
set forth the renewal of life and purification; also the addition of
cedar-wood, scarlet wool, and hyssop, by which the life-giving power of
the blood mixed with living (spring) water was to be still further
strengthened. The cedar-wood, on account of its antiseptic qualities
(ἔχει ἄσηπτον ἡ κέδρος, *Theodor.* on Ezek. 17:22), was a symbol of the
continuance of life; the coccus colour, a symbol of freshness of life,
or fulness of vital energy; and the hyssop (βοτάνη ῥυπτική, *herba
humilis, medicinalis, purgandis pulmonibus apta: August.* on Ps. 51), a
symbol of purification from the corruption of death. The sprinkling was
performed seven times, because it referred to a readmission into the
covenant, the stamp of which was seven; and it was made with a mixture
of blood and fresh water, the blood signifying life, the water
purification.

**Leviticus 14:8.** After this symbolical purification from the mortal
ban of leprosy, the person cleansed had to purify himself bodily, by
washing his clothes, shaving off all his hair—i.e., not merely the hair
of his head and beard, but that of his whole body (cf. v. 9),—and
bathing in water; and he could then enter into the camp. But he had
still to remain outside his tent for seven days, not only because he did
not yet feel himself at home in the congregation, or because he was
still to retain the consciousness that something else was wanting before
he could be fully restored, but, as the Chaldee has explained it by
adding the clause, *et non accedat ad latus uxoris suae,* that he might
not defile himself again by conjugal rights, and so interrupt his
preparation for readmission into fellowship with Jehovah.

**Leviticus 14:9–20.** The *second act* (vv. 9–20) effected his
restoration to fellowship with Jehovah, and his admission to the
sanctuary. It commenced on the seventh day after the first with a fresh
purification; viz., shaving off all the hair from the head, the beard,
the eyebrows—in fact, the whole body,—washing the clothes, and bathing
the body. On the eighth day there followed a sacrificial expiation; and
for this the person to be expiated was to bring two sheep without
blemish, a ewe-lamb of a year old, three-tenths of an ephah of fine
flour mixed with oil as a meat-offering, and a log (or one-twelfth of a
hin, i.e., as much as six hens’ eggs, or 15∙62 Rhenish cubic inches) of
oil; and the priest was to present him, together with these gifts,
before Jehovah, i.e., before the altar of burnt-offering. The one lamb
was then offered by the priest as a trespass-offering, together with the
log of oil; and both of these were waves by him. By the waving, which
did not take place on other occasions in connection with sin-offerings
and trespass-offerings, the lamb and oil were transferred symbolically
to the Lord; and by the fat that these sacrificial gifts represented the
offerer, the person to be consecrated to the Lord by means of them was
dedicated to His service again, just as the Levites were dedicated to
the Lord by the ceremony of waving (Num. 8:11, 15). But a
trespass-offering was required as the consecration-offering, because the
consecration itself served as a restoration to all the rights of the
priestly covenant nation, which had been lost by the mortal ban of
leprosy.<sup>34</sup>

**Leviticus 14:13, 14.** After the slaying of the lamb in the holy
place, as the trespass-offering, like the sin-offering, was most holy
and belonged to the priest (see at Leviticus 7:6), the priest put some
of its blood upon the tip of the right ear, the right thumb, and the
great toe of the right foot of the person to be consecrated, in order
that the organ of hearing, with which he hearkened to the word of the
Lord, and those used in acting and walking according to His
commandments, might thereby be sanctified through the power of the
atoning blood of the sacrifice; just as in the dedication of the priests
(Leviticus 8:24).

**Leviticus 14:15–18.** The priest then poured some oil out of the log
into the hollow of his left hand, and dipping the finger of his right
hand in the oil, sprinkled it seven times before Jehovah, i.e., before
the altar of burnt-offering, to consecrate the oil to God, and sanctify
it for further use. With the rest of the oil he smeared the same organs
of the person to be consecrated which he had already smeared with blood,
placing it, in fact, *“upon the blood of the trespass-offering,”* i.e.,
upon the spots already touched with blood; he then poured the remainder
upon the head of the person to be consecrated, and so made atonement for
him before Jehovah. The priests were also anointed at their
consecration, not only by the pouring of oil upon their head, but by the
sprinkling of oil upon their garments (Leviticus 8:12, 30). But in their
case the anointing of their head preceded the consecration-offering, and
holy anointing oil was used for the purpose. Here, on the contrary, it
was ordinary oil, which the person to be consecrated had offered as a
sacrificial gift; and this was first of all sanctified, therefore, by
being sprinkled and poured upon the organs with which he was to serve
the Lord, and then upon the head, which represented his personality.
Just as the anointing oil, prepared according to divine directions,
shadowed forth the power and gifts of the Spirit, with which God endowed
the priests for their peculiar office in His kingdom; so the oil, which
the leper about to be consecrated presented as a sacrifice out of his
own resources, represented the spirit of life which he had received from
God, and now possessed as his own. This property of his spirit was
presented to the Lord by the priestly waving and sprinkling of the oil
before Jehovah, to be pervaded and revived by His spirit of grace, and
when so strengthened, to be not only applied to those organs of the
person to be consecrated, with which he fulfilled the duties of his
vocation as a member of the priestly nation of God, but also poured upon
his head, to be fully appropriated to his person. And just as in the
sacrifice the blood was the symbol of the soul, so in the anointing the
oil was the symbol of the spirit. If, therefore, the soul was
established in gracious fellowship with the Lord by being sprinkled with
the atoning blood of sacrifice, the anointing with oil had reference to
the spirit, which gives life to soul and body, and which was thereby
endowed with the power of the Spirit of God. In this way the man
cleansed from leprosy was reconciled to Jehovah, and reinstated in the
covenant privileges and covenant grace.

**Leviticus 14:19, 20.** It was not till all this had been done, that
the priest could proceed to make expiation for him with the
sin-offering, for which the ewe-lamb was brought, “on account of his
uncleanness,” i.e., on account of the sin which still adhered to him as
well as to all the other members of the covenant nation, and which had
come outwardly to light in the uncleanness of his leprosy; after which
he presented his burnt-offering and meat-offering, which embodied the
sanctification of all his members to the service of the Lord, and the
performance of works well-pleasing to Him. The sin-offering,
burnt-offering, and meat-offering were therefore presented according to
the general instructions, with this exception, that, as a representation
of diligence in good works, a larger quantity of meal and oil was
brought than the later law in Num. 15:4 prescribed for the
burnt-offering.

**Leviticus 14:21–32.** In cases of poverty on the part of the person to
be consecrated, the burnt-offering and sin-offering were reduced to a
pair of turtle-doves or young pigeons, and the meat-offering to a tenth
of an ephah of meal and oil; but no diminution was allowed in the
trespass-offering as the consecration-offering, since this was the
*conditio sine qua non* of reinstatement in full covenant rights. On
account of the importance of all the details of this law, every point is
repeated a second time in vv. 21–32.

**Leviticus 14:33–53.** *The law concerning the leprosy of houses* was
made known to Moses and Aaron, as intended for the time when Israel
should have taken possession of Canaan and dwell in houses. As it was
Jehovah who gave His people the land for a possession, so “putting the
plague of leprosy in a house of the land of their possession” is also
ascribed to Him (v. 34), inasmuch as He held it over them, to remind the
inhabitants of the house that they owed not only their bodies but also
their dwelling-places to the Lord, and that they were to sanctify these
to Him. By this expression, *“I put,”* the view which *Knobel* still
regards as probable, viz., that the house-leprosy was only the
transmission of human leprosy to the walls of the houses, is completely
overthrown; not to mention the fact, that throughout the whole
description there is not the slightest hint of any such transmission,
but the inhabitants, on the contrary, are spoken of as clean, i.e., free
from leprosy, and only those who went into the house, or slept in the
house after it had been shut up as suspicious, are pronounced unclean
(vv. 46, 47), though even they are not said to have been affected with
leprosy. The only thing that can be gathered from the signs mentioned in
v. 37 is, that the house-leprosy was an evil which calls to mind “the
vegetable formations and braid-like structures that are found on
mouldering walls and decaying walls, and which eat into them so as to
produce a slight depression in the surface.”<sup>35</sup>

**Leviticus 14:35, 36.** When the evil showed itself in a house, the
owner was to send this message to the priest, *“A leprous evil has
appeared in my house,”* and the priest, before entering to examine it,
was to have the house cleared, lest everything in it should become
unclean. Consequently, as what was in the house became unclean only when
the priest had declared the house affected with leprosy, the reason for
the defilement is not to be sought for in physical infection, but must
have been of an ideal or symbolical kind.

**Leviticus 14:37ff.** If the leprous spot appeared in *“greenish or
reddish depressions, which looked deeper than the wall,”* the priest was
to shut up the house for seven days. If after that time he found that
the mole had spread on the walls, he was to break out the stones upon
which it appeared, and remove them to an unclean place outside the town,
and to scrape the house all round inside, and throw the dust that was
scraped off into an unclean place outside the town. He was then to put
other stones in their place, and plaster the house with fresh mortar.

**Leviticus 14:43ff.** If the mole broke out again after this had taken
place, it was a malicious leprosy, and the house was to be pulled down
as unclean, whilst the stones, the wood, and the mortar were to be taken
to an unclean place outside the town.

**Leviticus 14:46, 47.** Whoever went into the house during the time
that it was closed, became unclean till the evening and had to wash
himself; but whoever slept or ate therein during this time, was to wash
his clothes, and of course was unclean till the evening. הִסְגִּיר אֹתֹו
(v. 46) may be a perfect tense, and a relative clause dependent upon
יְמֵי, or it may be an infinitive for הַסְגִּיר as in v. 43.

**Leviticus 14:48.** If the priest should find, however, that after the
fresh plastering the mole had not appeared again, or spread (to other
places), he was to pronounce the house clean, because the evil was
cured, and (vv. 49–53) to perform the same rite of purification as was
prescribed for the restoration of a man, who had been cured of leprosy,
to the national community (vv. 4–7). The purpose was also the same,
namely, to cleanse (חַטֵּא cleanse from sin) and make atonement for the
house, i.e., to purify it from the uncleanness of sin which had appeared
in the leprosy. For, although it is primarily in the human body that sin
manifests itself, it spreads from man to the things which he touches,
uses, inhabits, though without our being able to represent this spread
as a physical contagion.

**Leviticus 14:54–57** Vv. 54–57 contain the concluding formula to
Leviticus 13 and 14. The law of leprosy was given “to teach in the day
of the unclean and the clean,” i.e., to give directions for the time
when they would have to do with the clean and unclean.

