---
title: "Levitical Priesthood"
pdf: "leviticalpriesthood.pdf"
description: "Levitical Priesthood -  A discussion of the institutions of the Jewish religion."
template: topic.jade
---


**Levitical Priesthood, 3**

The Levitical Priesthood

According to Numbers 16:5 the Levitical priests were commissioned by
God, separated unto God, and were allowed to approach God. “Then he said
to Korah and all his followers: ’In the morning the Lord will show who
belongs to him and who is holy, and he will have that person come near
him. The man he chooses he will cause to come near him.”

The Levitical priesthood began with the tribe of Levi and proceeded
through the sons of the family of Aaron, according to Numbers 18:1,8 and
Exodus 28:1, which says, “Have Aaron you brother brought to you from
among the Israelites, along with his sons Nadab and Abihu, Eleazar and
Ithamar, so they may serve me as priests.” However, physical blemishes
disqualified any male descendant of Aaron, according to Leviticus
21:17-23, from which 21:17 is presented: “The Lord said to Moses, ‘Say
to Aaron: ’For the generations to come non of your descendants who has a
defect may come near to offer the food of his God.’”

The duties of the Levitical priesthood included: the teaching of the
Law, Leviticus 10:11; offering the sacrifices, Leviticus chapter 9;
maintaining the Tabernacle and the Temple, Numbers 18:3; officiating in
the Holy Place, Exodus 30:7-10; inspecting ceremonially unclean persons,
Leviticus chapters 13 and 14; they adjudicated disputes, Deuteronomy
17:8-13; they functioned as tax collectors, Numbers 18:21,26; Hebrews
7:5.

Sustenance of the priesthood occurred through the following vehicles:
prescribed portions of the sacrificial offerings, Numbers 18:8-14; one
habitual tithe from which tithe a tenth part was assigned to the
priests, Numbers 18:21-24, cf. Lev. 27:30-33, cf. Numbers 18:26-28;
along with thirteen assigned cities, Joshua 21:13-19, which provided a
special tithe every third year, Deuteronomy 14:27-29; 26:12; the
redemption money for the firstborn in Israel, Leviticus chapter 27; an
assigned portion of the spoils of war, Numbers 31:25-27; along with the
showbread, Leviticus 24:5-9.

And so that the priests would not be overworked, they were assigned
assistants who were called the Levites, II Chronicles 29:34. The Levites
were selected by God to aid in the sacrificial offerings and in the
administration of holy things, according to Numbers 3:5ff., 8:14-19. The
Levites also preserved and transmitted the written Law, Lev. 10:11;
Deut. 17:18; 33:10; Nehemiah 8:9, Ezekiel 44:23. They attended the
priests, Numbers 18:4; the Levites also were responsible for assembling,
dismantling, and transporting the Tabernacle, Numbers chapter 4;
10:17,21. And they also taught the Torah (the word) and administered
justice, Deut. 33:10a.

Levitical priests usually served for 25 years, from age 25 to age 50,
according to Numbers 8:24,25, although at times older men were priests,
e.g. Zacharias, Luke 1:5-25.

Other than the family of Aaron, there were three other family lines in
the tribe of Levi (Numbers chapter 4): the kohathites, who maintained
the furniture, vessels and veil of the Tabernacle; the gershonites, who
maintained the coverings, hangings and doors of the Tabernacle; the
merarites, who maintained the supports, including the planks bars and
cords, of the Tabernacle.

Initially, God had selected the entire nation of Israel to be his
priests, according to Exodus 19:5,6; however, after the nation proved to
be inadequate as priests, Exodus 32:7-10, the Levites who supported
Moses in Exodus chapters 26-28 were selected as God’s priests, Numbers
3:5-9.

The apparel of the high priest is cited in Exodus chapter 28. Both the
priests and the high priest, except for ceremonial events, dressed as
other Jews. At ceremonial events, however, the high priest wore white
linen shorts, a white linen coat that came to the hips, a ceremonial
belt colored in correspondence to the curtains of the Tabernacle –
white, blue, scarlet, and purple; he also wore a turban-like cap with a
golden crown, upon which was inscribed: ‘holy to Jehovah.’ Additionally,
the high priest wore an ephod of blue, beautifully embroidered in the
colors cited above; also a breast-plate of gold and cloth, with the urim
and the thummim on the shoulders, and twelve stones, each stone
representing one of the twelve tribes; each stone was engraved with
their names and fastened with a golden clasp.

The sanctification of the high priest and the priests is found in Exodus
chapter 29. And the principal duty of the high priest was to officiate
on the Day of Atonement, according to Leviticus chapter 16. On the Day
of Atonement, the high priest, caparisoned in his ceremonial garments,
‘drew near to God;’ he entered the Tabernacle (or later the Temple), and
sprinkled over the top of the mercy seat the blood of the bullock of the
sin offering for himself, Leviticus 16:6,14. After he came forth from
the Holy of Holies, he again entered and sprinkled the blood of the goat
of the sin offering for the people. Both times he emerged from the Holy
of Holies after sprinkling the blood had hamartiological (sin)
ramifications: pardon for his personal sins, and pardon for the sins of
the people; and in each instance the pardon was based solely upon the
‘blood of the sin offering,’ which represented Christ on the Cross,
Leviticus 16:30.

According to I Chronicles chapter 15, 16:4-6, 37-43, David rearranged
the Levitical priesthood into 24 courses (orders); he assigned 16
courses to Eleazer, and 8 courses to Ithamar. This rearrangement was
chartered because of a population explosion in David’s reign.

According to Numbers 20:28, the office of the high priest was
transmitted upon death to the oldest living son of the high priest:
“Moses removed Aaron’s garments and put them on his son Eleazar. And
Aaron died there on top of the mountain. Then Moses and Eleazar came
down from the mountain.” And according to Numbers 25:10-13, God made a
covenant with Phinehas, the eldest son of Eleazar, which guaranteed a
lasting priesthood with the Aaronic line.

The line switched during Saul ben-Kish’s reign; Eli, a descendant of
Ithamar, assumed the office of high-priest, however, he functioned only
de facto and not de jure (legally). In fact, his descendants were
removed from the priesthood because of Eli’s failure to censure his
sons, I Samuel 2:23-25; 3:13. Solomon restored the Aaronic line to the
high-priesthood; he replaced Abiathar, Eli’s descendant, with Zadok,
from the line of Eleazar, I Kings 2:26,27,35. During the ministry of the
prophet Jeremiah, Seraiah was the high-priest; he was taken prisoner and
executed by Nebuzar-adan, II Kings 25:18-21. Seraiah’s son, Josedech,
was not allowed to function as high-priest. Instead, he lived and died
as a prisoner in Babylon, Haggai 1:1,14. Josedech’s son, Joshua,
functioned as the high-priest during the ministry of Zechariah, Zech.
3:1.

The high-priests that followed Joshua were: Joiakim, Eliashib, Joiada,
Johanan and Jaddua, who was the high-priest in the epoch of Alexander
the Great. Tradition holds that Jaddua met the advancing armies of
Alexander with the scroll of the book of Daniel, whereupon he read
Alexander those passages in Daniel referring to Alexander. Alexander was
impressed and, tradition maintains, favorably disposed toward the Jews
from then on.

Jaddua’s successors were: Onias I, Simon the Just; Onias II/Eleazar, and
Alcimus. The latter two, Onias II and Alcimus, were notorious for their
malfunction; indeed, Onias II was also known as Menelaus.

Then, according to I Chronicles 9:10; 24:7; Nehemiah 11:10, the
high-priestly line passed over to the Hasmonaean family, the course of
Joiarib. It stayed in the Hasmonean family until Herod the Great
decimated the Hasmonean family, and his brother-in-law, Herod, executed
the final Hasmonean high-priest, Aristobulus, in 35 BC.

At length, the two high priests associated with the death of our Lord
were Caiaphas and Annas.

