---
title: Locusts
template: lesson.jade
---


**Local Church 2**

Locusts  

By Dr. Randall E. Radic, Pastor  
First Congregational Church  
100 N. Acacia Avenue  
Ripon, California 95336

The Locusts [1]

Four different types of locusts are mentioned by Joel in verse 4,
chapter 1:

1. gazam, which means ‘to cut off,’ and refers to the locusts that eat
the tops off the stalks of plants. This type of locust has been called
the ‘gnawing locust,’ or ‘the devourer,’ and has no wings. The
eschatological (future) reference is to Tiglath-pileser III, also known
as Pul, the Assyrian king.

2. ‘arbeh, which means ’to increase;’ this type of locust eats the
stalks of the plants. It has been called ‘the swarming’ locust. The
eschatological reference is to Sargon II, an aristocrat unlike his
predecessor, Tiglath-pileser III, who was a commoner. Sargon II founded
the Sargonid Dynasty.

3. yelek, which means ‘to lick up,’ and designates the locust that eats
the stub of the stalk. The eschatological reference is to the Assyrian
king Sennacherib.

4. chasil, which means ‘to devour,’ and denotes the locust that eats the
root of the plant. And eschatologically, the term refers to Esar-haddon.
[2]

Locusts belong to the order called Orthoptera, and include grasshoppers.
True locusts, or jumping grasshoppers are migratory and belong to the
family Acrididae. There are 23,000 different species of locusts. And
they cause great damage to crops wherever they swarm. Modern control
measures include poison bait, the plowing under of locust eggs, airplane
sprayed insecticides and truck-mounted poisonous mist blowers. When
locusts swarm, the numbers are estimated to be in the hundreds of
millions.

A few Scripture references are: “They came up with their livestock and
their tents like swarms of locusts. It was impossible to count the men
and their camels; they invaded the land to ravage it.” Judges 6:5.

“They will chop down her forest,’ declares the Lord, ‘dense though it
be. They are more numerous than locusts, they cannot be counted.’”
Jeremiah 46:23

"Locusts have no king, yet they advance together in ranks.: Proverbs
30:27

To demonstrate how destructive locust infestations can be, Gustaf Dalman
wrote: [3] “In Jerusalem the locusts appeared at that time in flights
lasting for hours, like clouds from the northeast and south, from the
22nd to the 27th of March…..At the end of May and the beginning of Jude
the first hatching of eggs, deposited by them into the ground, appeared
as wingless larvae…, which wander about and eat up everything green that
they encounter. Wild growth, grain, the leaves of fig trees, vines, even
olive trees, everything disappears where they move along. They cover the
walls of houses, penetrate to the inside through doors and windows, just
as Exodus 10:5f assumes. Following a sixfold shedding, the wings appear
after approximately two months, and twenty days later they fly on…, to
invade other regions.”

NOTES:

[1] Thieme, Robert. Joel; from notes. The designation and definition of
these terms was originally posed by Robert Thieme.

[2] Isaiah 7-11 speak specifically of Tiglath-pileser III; Isaiah 20:1
speaks of Sargon II; and Isaiah 36-39 and II Kings 18 speak of
Sennacherib. Esar-haddon is mentioned in Ezra 4:2.

[3] Dalman, Gustaf. Arbeit 1/2, 393f (based on Israel Aharoni’s
description of the locust plague of 1915-16).

