---
title: "Lydda"
pdf: "lydda.pdf"
description: "the city where Peter healed Aeneas."
template: lesson.jade
---


**Lydda 2**

**Lydda**

A town in the coastal plain of Israel, 10 miles southeast of Tel
Aviv-Jaffa, is first recorded in Thutmose III’s list of towns of Canaan
(1465 BC).

According to the Bible it was founded by Shemed, a Benjaminite (I
Chronicles 8:12). In the Hellenistic period Lydda was outside the
boundaries of Judea. In 145 BC. it was detached from Samaria and given
by Demetrius II to Jonathan the Hasmonean.

In Maccabean times it was a purely Jewish town, and later Julius Caesar
is reported to have restored the privileges of its Jews, taken away by
the Greeks. In 43 AD Cassius, the governor of Syria, sold its
inhabitants into slavery. The Roman proconsul of Syria, Cestius Gallus,
burned Lydda on his way to Jerusalem in 66 AD. Captured by John the
Essene at the eginning of the first Jewish war (66–70), it was occupied
by Vespasian in 68 AD.

Between the First and Second Jewish Wars the town flourished. It had a
large market, raised cattle and ran textile, dyeing and pottery
industries. It was a seat of the Sanhedrin, and its scholars included
Akiva and Eliezer ben Hyrcanus. It also had a Christian community at the
time of Peter (Acts 9:32–35). In the year 200 Septimus Severus, the
Roman emperor, established a Roman city there. Still partly Jewish, it
took part in the revolt against the emperor Gallus in 351 and was
punished when this failed.

By the Byzantine era, the town was predominantly Christian. It was the
legendary birthplace of St. George, patron saint of England, and was
called Georgiopolis. Captured by the Muslims in 636, it served as the
headquarters of the province of Filasti¯n. The Crusaders occupied the
town in 1099; there was only one Jewish family there in 1170, according
to Benjamin of Tudela. But more Jews settled there again after the
conquest by Saladin. During the early Ottoman period there seem to have
been no Jews living there, though a small Jewish community was founded
in the 19th century. The Jews were forced out by the 1921 Arab riots; by
1944 Lydda had a population of 17,000 Arabs, one-fifth of them
Christian. During the War of Independence, Israel forces occupied Lydda
in July 1949. The majority of Arabs abandoned the town. At the end of
1990 the population numbered 43,000 including over 4,000 Muslims and
Christian Arabs.

Israel’s international airport, renamed in honor of David Ben-Gurion,
was originally built on the outskirts of Lydda by the British Mandatory
government in 1936. It is the home base for Israel’s El Al airlines.
Almost three million passengers passed through it in 1991. Both the
airport and Israel Aircraft Industries are important sources of
employment for the local population. Other industries include
papermaking, food preserves, electrical appliances, cigarettes and oil
refining.

### from the Catholic Encyclopedia

A titular see of Palestina Prima in the Patriarchate of Jerusalem. The
town was formerly called Lod, and was founded by Samad of the tribe of
Benjamin (I Par., viii, 12).

Some of its inhabitants were taken in captivity to Babylon, and some of
them returned later (I Esd., ii, 33; II Esd., vii, 37; xi, 34). About
the middle of the second century B.C., the city was given by the kings
of Syria to the Machabees, who held it until the coming of Pompey to
Judea (I Mach., xi, 34, 57; Josephus, “Antiquities”, XIV, x, 6).

Julius Caesar in 48 B.C. gave Lydda to the Jews, but Cassius in 44 sold
the inhabitants, who two years later were set at liberty by Antony
(Josephus, “Jewish War”, I, xi, 2; “Antiquities”, XIV xii, 2-5). The
city also experienced civil wars and the revolt of the Jews against the
Romans in the first century of our era; it was then officially called
Diospolis, but the popular name always remained Lod or Lydda.

There were Christians in this locality from the first, and St. Peter,
having come to visit them, there cured the paralytic Aeneas (Acts, ix,
32-5).

The earliest known bishop is Aetius, a friend of Arius; the episcopal
title of Lydda has existed since that time in the Creek Patriarchate of
Jerusalem. In December, 415, a council was held here which absolved the
heretic Pelagius, at the same time condemning his errors. Lydda has been
surnamed Georgiopolis in honour of the martyr St. George, who is said to
have been a native of this town.

The pilgrim Theodosius is the first to mention (about 530) the tomb of
the martyr. A magnificent church erected above this tomb, was rebuilt by
the Crusaders, and partly restored in modern times by the Greeks, to
whom the sanctuary belongs. On the arrival of the Crusaders in 1099
Lydda became the seat of a Latin see, many of whose titulars are known.
At present the city contains 6800 inhabitants, of whom 4800 are
Mussulmans, 2000 schismatic Greeks and a few Protestants. The Catholics
have a parish of 250 faithful in the neighboring town of Ramléh.

====================

