---
title: "Maccabees (Hasmoneans)"
pdf: "maccabees.pdf"
description: "The Jewish family that ruled Judea during most of the 400 silent years."
template: topic.jade
---

**Hasmoneans** hazʹme-nēʹenz [Gk *Asamomaios*; Heb *ḥašmônay*]. In the
broader sense the term Hasmonean refers to the whole “Maccabean” family.
According to Josephus (*Ant.* xii.6.1 [265]), Mattathias, the first of
the family to revolt against Antiochus IV’s demands, was the
great-grandson of Hashman. This name may have derived from the Heb
*ḥašmān*, perhaps meaning “fruitfulness,” “wealthy.” Hashman was a
priest of the family of Joarib (cf. 1 Macc. 2:1; 1 Ch. 24:7). The
narrower sense of the term Hasmonean has reference to the time of
Israel’s independence beginning with Simon, Mattathias’s last surviving
son, who in 142 b.c. gained independence from the Syrian control, and
ending with Simon’s great-grandson Hyrcanus II, who submitted to the
Roman general Pompey in 63 b.c. Remnants of the Hasmoneans continued
until a.d. 100.

I. Revolt of the Maccabees
--------------------------

The Hasmonean name does not occur in the books of Maccabees, but appears
in Josephus several times (*Ant.* xi.4.8 [111]; xii.6.1 [265]; xiv.16.4
[490f]; xv.11.4 [403]; xvi.7.1 [187]; xvii.7.3 [162]; xx.8.11 [190];
10.3 [238]; 10.5 [247, 249]; BJ i.7 [19]; 1.3 [36]; Vita 1 [2, 4]) and
once in the Mishnah (*Middoth* i.6). These references include the whole
Maccabean family beginning with Mattathias. In 166 b.c. Mattathias, the
aged priest in Modein, refused to obey the order of Antiochus IV’s envoy
to sacrifice to the heathen gods, and instead slew the envoy and a Jew
who was about to comply. He then destroyed the altar and proclaimed,
“Let every one who is zealous for the law and supports the covenant come
out with me” (1 Macc. 2:15–27; *Ant.* xii.6.1–2 [265–272]; Dnl.
11:32–35). Mattathias and his five sons fled to the mountains. This
marked the beginning of the Maccabean revolt. They waged war against the
Jews who complied with Antiochus, tore down heathen altars, circumcised
children who had been left uncircumcised, and exhorted all Jews to
follow in their struggle. Mattathias died (166 b.c.) and left the
crusade in the hands of his third son Judas, with whom a new era of
fighting commenced (1 Macc. 2:42–70; *Ant.* xii.6.2–4 [273–286]).

Judas was very able and at Emmaus defeated the three generals sent by
the Syrian regent Lysias and at Beth-zur defeated Lysias himself (1
Macc. 4:1–35; *Ant.* xii.7.4f [305–315]). Judas had regained the entire
country and this allowed him to restore the worship in the temple in
Jerusalem. On Chislev 25 (14 December, 164 b.c.), exactly three years
after its desecration, the temple with its altar was rededicated and the
daily sacrifices were reinstituted (1 Macc. 4:36–59; 2 Macc. 10:1–8;
*Ant.* xii.7.6f [316–326]). This marked the commencement of the Jewish
Feast of Dedication or Lights (Heb *ḥ*<sup>*a*</sup>*nûkkâ*).

Judas continued to fight Lysias. Finally in 163 b.c. Lysias had laid
siege to Jerusalem. Because of adverse situations on both sides, Lysias
and Judas made peace and guaranteed religious freedom for the Jews (1
Macc. 6:28–63). But Judas also wanted to have political freedom and
continued in this struggle until his death at Eleasa in 160 b.c. (1
Macc. 7:14–9:22; *Ant.* xii.9.7–11.2 [384–434]). This brought disarray
to Maccabean forces and the Hellenists were temporarily in control under
the leadership of the Syrian general Bacchides.

Judas’s brother Jonathan continued the guerilla warfare against
Hellenism. In 157 B.C. Jonathan’s defeat of Bacchides at Beth-basi (10
km [6 mi] S of Jerusalem) resulted in a peace treaty, and Bacchides
returned to Antioch. This weakened the Hellenists and because of the
internal struggles of Syria Jonathan gained strength for the next five
years (1 Macc. 9:23–73; Ant. xiii.1.1–6 [1–34]). In 152 B.C. Syria had
further internal struggles when Alexander Balas, who claimed to be the
son of Antiochus IV, challenged the Seleucidian king Demetrius I. In 150
B.C.

![](img/maccabees.png)

Alexander Balas won and made Jonathan a general, governor, and high
priest of Judah (the king of Syria selected the high priest but none had
been chosen since the death of Alcimus in May, 159 b.c.) and considered
Jonathan one of his chief friends (1 Macc. 10:22–66; *Ant.* xiii.2.3f
[46–61]; 4.1f [80–85]). This was a strange combination: Alexander Balas,
professed son of Antiochus Epiphanes, was in league with a Maccabean!
Alexander Balas’s rule was challenged by Demetrius’s son, Demetrius II
Nicator, in 147 b.c. and Balas was finally defeated in 145 b.c.
Demetrius II confirmed Jonathan’s high priesthood and gave Jonathan the
three districts of southern Samaria that he had requested. In 143 b.c.
Demetrius II’s army rebelled, and Diodotus Tryphon (a general of
Alexander Balas) claimed the Syrian throne for Alexander Balas’s son,
Antiochus VI. Jonathan took advantage of the situation and sided with
Tryphon, who in turn made Jonathan head of the civil and religious
affairs and his brother Simon head of the military. Tryphon, however,
fearful of Jonathan’s success, deceived him, arranged a meeting with
him, and subsequently killed him (1 Macc. 10:67–13:30; Ant. xiii.4.3–6.6
[86-212]).

II. Rule of the Hasmoneans
--------------------------

A new phase of the Maccabean rule had emerged. Although the term
“Hasmonean” is sometimes applied to the whole of the Maccabean family,
it is more strictly applied to the high-priestly house, from the time of
Simon to 63 b.c. The reason for this is that the Maccabean dream had
finally come true, namely, that the Israelites had become politically
and religiously an independent nation.

Judas had already achieved religious freedom, and Jonathan had become
both the religious leader, by being appointed high priest, and the
political leader, by becoming the sole ruler over Judea and by ousting
the Hellenistic elements. Simon attempted and achieved complete
independence from the Seleucid rule. This independence endured until
Rome’s intervention in 63 b.c.

**A. Simon (143–135b.c.)**Simon, the second oldest son of Mattathias,
succeeded his younger brother Jonathan. There was a great upheaval in
Syria because Tryphon killed Antiochus VI and reigned in his stead as a
rival to Demetrius II (1 Macc. 13:31f; Ant. xiii.7.1 [218–222]; Diodorus
xxxiii.28.1; LivyEpit lv; Appian Syr 68; Justinus xxxvi.1.7). Because of
the dastardly act of Tryphon against Simon’s brother, Simon naturally
attached himself to Demetrius II on the condition of Judea’s complete
independence. Since Demetrius II no longer controlled the southern parts
of the Syrian empire, he extended to Simon complete exemption from past
and future taxation. The significance of this is that the gentile yoke
over Israel had been removed for the first time since the Babylonian
Captivity, and Judea’s political independence meant that they could
write their own documents and treaties. This was in 142 b.c. (1 Macc.
13:33–42; Ant. xiii.6.7 [213f]).

In order to insure the security of the new independent state, Simon took
two actions. First, because of the possible threat of Tryphon, Demetrius
II’s rival, Simon seized the fortress of Gazara (Gezer) between
Jerusalem and Joppa, expelling the Gentiles and replacing them with
Jews, and appointed his son John Hyrcanus as governor (1 Macc. 13:43–48,
53; 16:1, 21; Ant. xiii.6.7 [213–17]). Second, Simon shortly afterward
captured the fortress of Acra in Jerusalem. Acra had never been in the
hands of the Maccabeans but had been in the control of the hellenizers
for more than forty years, serving as a reminder of the Syrian control.
With the last vestige of Syrian control overthrown, the Acra was
purified on the twenty-third day of the second month in 141 b.c. (3
June, 141 b.c.) (1 Macc. 13:49–52; Ant. xiii.6.7 [215–17]). Like his
brothers Judas (1 Macc. 8:17) and Jonathan (1 Macc. 12:1), Simon made a
peace treaty with Rome and Sparta, who guaranteed the freedom of
worship.

In commemoration of Simon’s achievement, in 140 b.c. (Sept. 13) the Jews
conferred upon him the position of leader and high priest forever until
a faithful prophet should arise (1 Macc. 14:25–40, esp v 41). The high
priesthood formerly belonged to the house of Onias but this had come to
an end in 174 b.c. The Syrian kings had selected the intervening high
priests, namely, Menelaus, Alcimus, and Jonathan. But now the Jews
appointed Simon and his descendants as successors of the high
priesthood. This marked the beginning of the Hasmonean dynasty, in that
Simon and his successors had both the priestly and political power
vested in their persons, and thus had far greater power than the
political power of Judas and Jonathan or the religious power of the
family of Onias.

In 139 b.c. Demetrius II was captured by the Parthians. In Demetrius
II’s place his brother Antiochus VII Sidetes took up the struggle
against Tryphon. He invited Simon’s help in his struggle against Tryphon
by confirming to him all the rights and privileges already granted to
him with the additional right to strike his own coins. Simon, however,
refused the invitation. When Tryphon finally fled and committed suicide,
Antiochus VII turned his attention to Simon. He accused Simon of
unlawful expansion and demanded the surrender of Joppa, Gazara, and the
Acra in Jerusalem along with tribute he received from the captured
cities outside of Judea. If Simon refused these demands, he could pay an
indemnity of one thousand talents. Simon refused to comply because he
insisted that all these territories were rightly a part of Judea.
Antiochus VII sent his general, Cendebeus, but was defeated by Simon’s
two sons, Judas and John Hyrcanus (1 Macc. 15:1–14, 25–16:10; Ant.
xiii.7.2f [223–27]; BJ i.2.2 [50–53]). This brought peace to Judea.

Finally, in 135 b.c. Simon and his two sons, Mattathias and Judas, were
slain at a banquet near Jericho by his son-in-law Ptolemy, who had been
appointed governor over the plain of Jericho but had ambitions for
greater power. Ptolemy sent men to kill Simon’s second son, John
Hyrcanus, at his residence in Gazara (where, also, he was the military
governor). John, however, being warned of their coming, captured and
killed them. John Hyrcanus went to Jerusalem and was well received (1
Macc. 16:11–23; Ant. xiii.7.4–8.1 [228–235]; BJ i.2.3f [54–60]).

Simon’s rule of eight years (Ant. xiii.7.4 [228]) had accomplished much
for the Jews. He brought independence both politically and religiously.
He had extended the boundaries of the nation, gained control over the
land, and brought peace to the people whereby “each man sat under his
vine and his fig tree, and there was none to make them afraid” (1 Macc.
14:4–15).

**B. John Hyrcanus (135–104b.c***.)*John Hyrcanus succeeded his father
as high priest and ruler of the people. In the first year of his reign
he had trouble because Antiochus VII, who had failed to take over Judea
under Simon, asserted his claim of ruler over Judea, seized Joppa and
Gazara, ravaged the land, and finally besieged Jerusalem for more than a
year. With food supplies dwindling, Hyrcanus asked for a seven-day truce
in order to celebrate the Feast of Tabernacles. Antiochus not only
complied but also sent gifts to help them in their celebration. This
action indicated Antiochus’s willingness to negotiate a peace
settlement. The result was that the Jews had to hand over their arms;
pay heavy tribute for capture and possession of Joppa and other cities
bordering on Judea; and give hostages, one of whom was Hyrcanus’s
brother. The walls of Jerusalem were destroyed, but the Syrians could
not establish a garrison in Jerusalem (Ant. xiii.7.4–8.3 [228–248]; BJ
i.2.5 [61]). The independence won by Jonathan and Simon was destroyed by
a single blow, though only because Syria could concentrate its efforts.
In 130 b.c., however, Antiochus VII became involved in a campaign
against the Parthians that resulted in his death in 129 b.c. Demetrius
II, released by the Parthians, again gained control of Syria (129–125
b.c.), but because of the troubles within Syria Demetrius II was unable
to bother Hyrcanus. Hyrcanus renewed the alliance with Rome whereby Rome
confirmed his independence and warned Syria against any incursion into
Hyrcanus’s territory. Also, Hyrcanus’s payment of indemnity for Joppa
and other cities ceased. The long struggle between the Hasmoneans and
the Seleucids came to an end (Ant. xiii.9.2 [259–266]). Hyrcanus took
advantage of the situation and extended his borders to the east by
conquering Medeba in Transjordan, to the north by capturing Shechem and
Mt. Gerizim and by destroying the Samaritan temple at Mt. Gerizim (128
b.c.), and to the south by taking over the Idumean cities of Adora and
Marisa, where he forced the Idumeans to be circumcised and to obey the
Jewish law or emigrate (Ant. xiii.8.4–9.1 [249–258]; BJ i.2.6f [62-66]).
Later in 109 b.c. Hyrcanus and his sons conquered Samaria and thus were
able to occupy the Esdraelon Valley all the way up to Mt. Carmel (Ant.
xiii.10.2f [275-283]; BJ i.2.7 [64–66]), Hyrcanus’s independence was
further demonstrated by the minting of coins bearing his own name, an
unprecedented action for a Jewish king (110/109 b.c.).

![The Hasmonean palace, originally built by Hyrcanus I; part of M
Avi-Yonah’s Jerusalem Temple Model (W. S. LaSor)](img/hasmonean-palace.png)

With Hyrcanus’s successes came a rift between him and the Pharisees.
Although the origins of the Pharisees and the Sadducees are somewhat
obscure, they were well established and influential by the time of
Hyrcanus’s reign. The Pharisees, who were descendants of the Hasideans,
were somewhat indifferent to the political success of the Hasmoneans and
felt that the high priesthood had become worldly by hellenization and
secularization. Hence they questioned whether Hyrcanus should be the
high priest. The Sadducees, however, a party of mostly wealthy priestly
aristocracy, were antagonistic toward the Pharisees and sided with
Hyrcanus. Consequently, Hyrcanus joined in with the Sadducees. This
indicates both the thinking of the Sadducees and the decline of the
office of the high priest (Ant. xiii.10.5f [288–296]; TB *Berakhoth*
29a).

After thirty-one years of rule Hyrcanus died peacefully (104 b.c.),
leaving five sons (Ant. xiii.10.7 [299f]; BJ i.2.8 [67–69]).

**C. Aristobulus I (104–103b.c***.)*Hyrcanus desired that his wife would
head the civil government while his oldest son Aristobulus I would be
the high priest. Displeased with this, Aristobulus imprisoned all his
brothers except Antigonus, who shared in ruling until Aristobulus became
suspicious and had him killed. Aristobulus’s rule lasted only a year,
but he was able to conquer Galilee, whose inhabitants he compelled to be
circumcised. Aristobulus died of a severe illness (Ant. xiii.11.1–3
[301–319]; BJ i.3.1–6 [70–84]).

**D. Alexander Janneus (103–76b.c.)**On the death of Aristobulus, his
wife Salome Alexandra released his three brothers, one of whom was
Alexander Janneus, from prison. She appointed him as king and high
priest and subsequently married him, though he was thirteen years her
junior (Ant. xiii.12.1 [320–24]; BJ i.4.1 [85]), This marriage was
against the law, for the high priest was to marry only a virgin (Lev.
21:13f). Alexander Janneus endeavored to follow in the footsteps of his
father and brother in territorial expansion. He captured the coastal
Greek cities from Carmel to Gaza (except Ascalon), compelling the
inhabitants to follow the Jewish law. He was successful in his conquests
in Transjordan and the south, so that the size of his kingdom was equal
to that of David and Solomon (Ant. xiii.12.2–13.4 [324-371]; BJ i.4.2
[86f]).

There were, however, real conflicts within his domain. The Pharisees saw
that the Hasmoneans were deviating more from their ideals, for Alexander
Janneus was a drunkard who loved war and was allied with the Sadducees.
Tension came to a head at a celebration of the Feast of Tabernacles when
Alexander Janneus poured the water libation over his feet instead of on
the altar as prescribed by the Pharisaic ritual. The people, enraged,
shouted and pelted him with lemons. Alexander ordered his mercenary
troop to attack, and six thousand Jews were massacred (Ant. xiii.13.5
[372–74]; BJ i.4.3 [88f]; TB *Sukkah* 48b). This act brought great
bitterness, and the people awaited an opportunity for revenge.

The time came in 94 b.c. when Alexander Janneus attacked Obedas king of
the Arabs, but suffered a severe defeat and barely escaped with his
life. Upon his return to Jerusalem the people turned against him; with
the help of foreign mercenaries Alexander Janneus fought six years
against his people, slaying no less than fifty thousand Jews. The
Pharisees finally in 88 b.c. called upon the Seleucid Demetrius III
Eukairos to help them. Wars bring strange allies, for the descendants of
the Hasideans asked the descendants of Antiochus Epiphanes to aid them
in their fight against the descendants of the Maccabees! Alexander
Janneus was defeated at Shechem and fled to the mountains. Six thousand
Jews, however, realizing that their national existence was threatened,
sided with Alexander Janneus because they felt it the lesser of two
evils to side with him in a free Jewish state than to be annexed to the
Syrian empire. But when Alexander Janneus reestablished himself, he
forced Demetrius to withdraw, and he ordered eight hundred Pharisees to
be crucified and their wives and children to be killed before their eyes
while he was feasting and carousing with his concubines. Because of
these atrocities eight thousand Jews fled the country (Ant.
xiii.13.5–14.2 [375-383]; BJ i.4.4–6 [90–98]).

After this there were upheavals in the Seleucid empire that affected
Alexander Janneus. The Nabateans were becoming strong and opposed a
Seleucid rule. Around 85 b.c. the Nabatean king Aretas invaded Judea,
and Alexander Janneus retreated to Adida (32 km. [20 mi] NW of
Jerusalem), but Aretas withdrew after coming to terms with Janneus. From
83 to 80 b.c. he was successful in his campaign in the east, conquering
Pella, Dium, Gerasa, Gaulana, Seleucia, and Gamala. The last three years
of his life (79–76 b.c.) he contracted an illness due to his
overdrinking, and when he died he was buried with great pomp (Ant.
xiii.14.3–16.1 [384-406]; BJ i.4.7f [99–106]).

**E. Salome Alexandra (76–67b.c.)**On his deathbed, Alexander Janneus
appointed his wife, Salome Alexandra, as his successor. Because the Law
barred a woman from the priesthood, Salome selected her oldest son
Hyrcanus II as the high priest. This did not please her younger son
Aristobulus II, who was ambitious for power. Alexander Janneus also
advised his wife to make peace with the Pharisees since they controlled
the mass of the people. She followed his advice and this marked the
revival of the Pharisaic influence. This change was not difficult since
her brother, Simeon ben Shetah, was the leader of the Pharisees. It soon
became obvious that though she had the title, the Pharisees were really
the power behind the throne. The Pharisees reintroduced Pharisaic
legislation that had been abandoned by John Hyrcanus a few years
earlier. Also, the Pharisees sought revenge for the slaughter of the
eight hundred Pharisees, their wives, and their children during
Alexander Janneus’s reign, and thus put to death some of those who had
advised Alexander Janneus in this atrocity. The Sadducees, who saw that
as an attack on them, sent a delegation to Alexandra to protest this
revenge. One of the delegates was her son Aristobulus II, who openly
sided with the Sadducees against the Pharisees. With Alexandra’s
permission, the Sadducees were allowed to leave Jerusalem and to take
control of several fortresses in various areas of the land. With
Aristobulus II as their military leader, Hyrcanus II complained to
Alexandra of Aristobulus’s strength. When Alexandra became sick,
Aristobulus II realized that he must win support if he, rather than
Hyrcanus II, were to gain the throne. Aristobulus II left Jerusalem to
enlist support of the surrounding cities, and within fifteen days he had
the support of most of the country and control of twenty-two fortresses.
Hyrcanus II and his advisers became alarmed and sought Alexandra’s
advice. She wanted Hyrcanus II to succeed her, but before anything could
be done she died. Her reign was marked with peace both at home and
abroad, except for the family turmoil (Ant. xiii.15.6–16.6 [399–432]);
BJ i.5.1–4 [107–119]).

**F. Aristobulus II (67–63b.c.)**With Alexandra’s death Hyrcanus II
assumed the positions of king and high priest. This, however, was
short-lived, for Aristobulus II declared war on him. With many of
Hyrcanus II’s soldiers deserting him, Hyrcanus II fled to Jerusalem’s
citadel (later known as Fortress Antonia) and finally was forced to
surrender. The two brothers agreed that Hyrcanus II was to relinquish
his positions as king and high priest to Aristobulus II and to retire
from public life and that Aristobulus II was to leave Hyrcanus II’s
revenue undisturbed. Hyrcanus II ruled for only three months.

Hyrcanus II was willing to accept this, but the Idumean Antipater II
(the son of Antipater I, who had been appointed governor of Idumea by
Alexander Janneus, and the father of Herod the Great) had other plans
for him. Antipater realized that Hyrcanus II was a weak and idle man and
that he could control him. Yet he himself could not be the high priest
because he was an Idumean. Antipater convinced Hyrcanus II that
Aristobulus unlawfully took the throne and that Hyrcanus II was the
legitimate king. Furthermore, he convinced him that Hyrcanus II’s life
was in danger, and so he traveled by night from Jerusalem to Petra, the
capital of Edom. Aretas was willing to help Hyrcanus II on the condition
that he would give up the twelve cities of Moab taken by Alexander
Janneus. Hyrcanus and Aretas having agreed, Aretas attacked Aristobulus
II, who was defeated and retreated to the temple mount at the time of
Passover in 65 b.c. Many people sided with Hyrcanus II (Ant. xiv.1.2–2.2
[4-28]; BJ i.6.1f [120–26]; cf. also Justin Martyr Dial lii; Eusebius HE
i.6.2; 7.11; TB *Baba Bathra* 3b–4a; *Kiddushin* 70a).

Meanwhile the Roman army under Pompey was moving through Asia Minor
after defeating Mithridates in 66 b.c. Pompey sent Scaurus to Syria, and
upon his arrival at Damascus he heard of the dispute between the two
brothers. When he had hardly arrived in Judea, both brothers sent
emissaries asking for support. Aristobulus II offered four hundred
talents, and Hyrcanus II followed suit, but Scaurus accepted Aristobulus
II, for he felt he would be able to pay. He commanded Aretas to withdraw
or else be declared an enemy of Rome. He pursued Aretas, inflicting a
crushing defeat, and then returned to Damascus. Shortly after, Pompey
arrived in Damascus, and three envoys approached him: one from Hyrcanus
II who complained that Aristobulus II seized the power unlawfully; a
second from Aristobulus II who claimed he was justified in his actions
and that his brother was incompetent to rule; and a third from the
Pharisaic element who asked for the abolition of the Hasmonean rule and
the restoration of the high-priestly rule. Pompey wanted to delay his
decision until after the Nabatean campaign.

Aristobulus II, displeased with this, quit fighting for Pompey against
the Nabateans. Pompey dropped the Nabatean expedition and went after
Aristobulus II. Aristobulus II lost heart and Pompey asked for the
surrender of Jerusalem in exchange for Pompey’s dropping his
hostilities. Pompey’s general Gabinius was sent to Jerusalem but was
barred from the city. Pompey was outraged and attacked the city. Within
the city Aristobulus II’s followers wanted to defend themselves while
Hyrcanus II’s followers wanted Pompey as an ally and wanted to open the
gates. Because the majority were with Hyrcanus II, the gates were
opened, but Aristobulus II’s men held out at the temple mount. After a
three-month siege, Pompey entered the temple mount, and twelve thousand
Jews were killed (autumn of 63 b.c.). Pompey entered the holy of holies,
but he did not disturb it. In fact, on the following day he gave orders
for cleansing it and for resuming the sacrifices there. Hyrcanus II was
reinstated as high priest, and Aristobulus II, his two daughters and two
sons, Alexander and Antigonus, were taken to Rome as prisoners of war.
Alexander escaped. In the triumphal parade in 61 b.c. Aristobulus II was
made to walk before Pompey’s chariot.

This marked the end of the seventy-nine years (142–63 b.c.) of
independence of the Jewish nation as well as the end of the Hasmonean
house. Hyrcanus II, the high priest, was merely a vassal of the Roman
empire (Ant. xiv.2.3–4.5 [29-79]; BJ i.6.3–7.7 [128-158]; Tacitus Hist.
v.9; Appian *Mithridactic Wars* 106, 114; Florus i.40.30; Livy 102;
Plutarch *Pompey* xxxix; cf. Dio Cassius xxxvii.15–17).

III. Demise of the Hasmoneans
-----------------------------

The loss of independence brought about the decline of the Hasmoneans.
Their power was weakened and what power they had was gradually being
transferred to the Herods (*See* Herod).

**A. Hyrcanus II (63–40b.c.).**Although Hyrcanus II was reappointed high
priest, Antipater was the power behind the throne who was responsible
for Hyrcanus II’s position and honor. Antipater proved himself useful to
the Romans in government. On the other hand, the Romans helped Antipater
quell troubles caused by some of the Hasmoneans. Aristobulus II’s family
bitterly resented Rome’s favoring Hyrcanus II over his brother
Aristobulus II, and they made attempts to regain his status of high
priest and political ruler. In 57 b.c., while Alexander (son of
Aristobulus II), a Roman prisoner, was being taken to Rome, he escaped
and succeeded in collecting an army of ten thousand heavily armed
soldiers and one thousand four hundred horsemen, but he was finally
defeated by Gabinius, the new Roman governor of Syria, and Mark Antony.
In 56 b.c. Aristobulus II and his other son Antigonus escaped from their
Roman imprisonment and caused a revolt in Judea, but a Roman detachment
attacked his little band and they were driven across the Jordan.
Although attempting to defend themselves in Machaerus, Aristobulus II
and Antigonus had to yield after two days and they were again sent to
Rome as prisoners. The Roman Senate decided to keep Aristobulus II in
prison but released his two sons, Alexander and Antigonus, because of
their mother’s helpfulness toward Gabinius. They returned to Judea. In
55 b.c. Alexander revolted again and won many people to his side, but
this was quickly brought to an end. Gabinius then went to Jerusalem and
reorganized the government according to Antipater’s wishes (Ant.
xiv.5.1–6.1 [80-97]; BJ i.8.2–7 [160-178]; Dio Cassius xxxix.56;
Plutarch *Antony* iii).

Antipater married a woman named Cypros, of an illustrious Arabian
family, by whom he had four sons — Phasael, Herod, Joseph, Pheroras —
and a daughter, Salome (Ant. xiv.7.3 [121]; BJ i.8.9 [181]).

When Julius Caesar became ruler of Rome in 49 b.c., Pompey and the party
of the Roman Senate fled from Italy. This left Antipater and Hyrcanus II
in the precarious situation of possibly being unable to handle revolts.
In fact, Caesar released the imprisoned Aristobulus II and gave him two
legions to fight the party of Pompey in Antioch and finally take control
of Syria and Judea. But before he could leave Rome, Aristobulus II was
poisoned by friends of Pompey. In addition, Aristobulus II’ s son,
Alexander, who sided with Caesar, was beheaded at Antioch by order of
Pompey. This means that only Antigonus, the other son of Aristobulus II,
remained as a threat to Hyrcanus II and Antipater (Ant. xiv.7.4
[123–25]; BJ i.9.1f [183–86]; Dio Cassius xli.18.1).

When Julius Caesar defeated Pompey in Egypt in 48 b.c., Hyrcanus and
Antipater attached themselves to the victor. Caesar made Antipater a
Roman citizen with exemption from taxes. He appointed him procurator of
Judea and reconfirmed Hyrcanus II’s high priesthood. He also gave
Hyrcanus the title of Ethnarch of the Jews (Ant. xiv.8.1–5 [127–155];
10.2 [191]; BJ i.9.3–10.4 [187-203]). Immediately after, Antipater went
about the country to suppress disorder and appealed to the restless
Judean population to be loyal to Hyrcanus II. In essence, however,
Antipater was ruling, and it was he who appointed his son Phasael as the
governor of Jerusalem and his second son Herod as governor of Galilee in
47 b.c. (Ant. xiv.9.1f [156-58]; BJ i.l0.4 [201–203]). Herod was
successful in ridding Galilee of bandits.

In 47 b.c. or early 46 b.c., some Jews complained to Hyrcanus II that
Herod was becoming too powerful and that he had violated the Jewish law
and consequently should be tried before the Sanhedrin. So Hyrcanus II
ordered Herod to a trial. Herod came to the trial, not appearing as an
accused person, but as a king, decked in purple and attended by a
bodyguard. Sextus Caesar, the new governor of Syria, ordered Hyrcanus II
to acquit Herod or serious consequences would follow. Herod was released
and fled to join Sextus Caesar at Damascus. Sextus appointed Herod as
governor of Coelesyria because of his popularity and thus Herod became
involved with the affairs of Rome in Syria. Herod began to march against
Jerusalem in order to avenge himself for the insult Hyrcanus II had
directed toward him, but was persuaded by his father and brother to
abstain from violence (Ant. xiv.9.3–5 [163–184]; BJ i.10.6–9 [208–215];
cf. TB *Kiddushin* 43a).

After Cassius, Brutus, and their followers murdered Julius Caesar in 44
b.c., Cassius came to Syria. Needing to raise certain taxes required by
Cassius, Antipater selected Herod, Phasael, and Malichus for the job.
Herod was very successful in this, and Cassius appointed him governor of
Coelesyria (as he had been under Sextus Caesar). Since the Herods were
gaining strength, Malichus, whose life Antipater had previously saved,
bribed the butler to poison Antipater. Herod killed Malichus (Ant.
xiv.11.3–6 [277–293]; BJ i.11.2–8 [220–235]).

Herod was growing in power but was not always liked by the Jews because
he was an Idumean. Although he was married to Doris, who was probably
Idumean also, he became betrothed to Mariamne, who was the granddaughter
of Hyrcanus II (her mother was Alexandra) and the daughter of
Aristobulus II’s son, Alexander, and thus a niece to Antigonus, the
rival of Herod (Ant. xiv.12.1 [300]; BJ i.12.3 [241]). This strengthened
Herod’s position immensely, for he would marry into the royal house of
the Hasmoneans and would become the natural regent when Hyrcanus II, who
was growing old, passed away.

In 42 b.c. when Antony defeated Cassius, the Jewish leaders accused
Herod and Phasael of usurping the power of the government while leaving
Hyrcanus II with titular honors. Herod’s defense nullified these charges
(Ant. xiv.12.2–6 [301–323]; BJ i.12.4–6 [242–45]; Plutarch *Antony*
xxiv; Dio Cassius xlviii.24; Appian *Civil Wars* v.4). Since Hyrcanus II
was there, Antony asked him who would be the best qualified ruler, and
Hyrcanus II chose Herod and Phasael. Antony appointed them as tetrarchs
of Judea (BJ i.12.5 [243f]; Ant. xiv.13.1 [324–26]).

**B. Antigonus (40–37b.c***.)*The next year (40 b.c.) the Parthians
appeared in Syria. They joined Antigonus in the effort to remove
Hyrcanus II. After several skirmishes, the Parthians asked for peace.
Phasael and Hyrcanus II went to Galilee to meet the Parthian king while
Herod remained in Jerusalem, suspicious of the proposal. The Parthians
treacherously put Phasael and Hyrcanus II in chains, and Herod with his
close relatives, Mariamne, and his troops moved to Masada and then to
Petra (Ant. xiv.13.3–9 [335–364]; BJ i.13.2–9 [250–264]). Antigonus was
made king (Dio Cassius; xlviii.41; inferred in Ant. xiv.13.10 [368f]; BJ
i.13.9 [268–270]; cf. also Dio Cassius xlviii.26). In order to prevent
the possibility of Hyrcanus II’s restoration to high priesthood,
Antigonus mutilated him. Phasael died either of suicide or poisoning
(Ant. xiv.l3.10 [367–69]; BJ i.13.10f [271–73]). Hyrcanus II was taken
to Parthia (Ant. xv.2.1 [12]).

Herod went to Rome where Antony, Octavius Caesar, and the Senate
designated him King of Judea (Ant. xiv.14.6 [381–85]; BJ i.14.4
[282–85]; cf. also Strabo *Geog*. xvi.2.46; Appian *Civil Wars* v.75;
Tacitus Hist v.9). In late 40 or early 39 b.c. Herod returned to
Palestine, and with the help of Antony’s legate Sossius, was able to
recapture Galilee. In the spring of 37 b.c. he prepared for the siege of
Jerusalem. While assigning his army several duties he left for Samaria
to marry Mariamne to whom he had been betrothed for about five years.
This was a contemptuous act against Antigonus, the uncle or Mariamne,
for her being a Hasmonean strengthened Herod’s right to the throne.
After the wedding he returned to Jerusalem, which fell in the summer of
37 after a long and bitter struggle (Ant. xiv.15.8–16.2 [439-480]; BJ
i.16.7–18.2 [320-352]; Tacitus Hist v.9; Dio Cassius xlix.22). At
Herod’s request, the Romans beheaded Antigonus (BJ i.18.3 [357];
Plutarch *Antony* xxxvi; cf. also Dio Cassius xlix.22), which meant the
end of the Hasmonean rule. Herod, therefore, ceased to be the nominee
for king and became king *de facto*.

**C. Mariamne and Her Sons (37–7b.c.).**One of the first moves Herod
made as king was to appoint Ananel (Hananeel), who was of the Aaronic
line, as high priest to replace Hyrcanus II who, although just returning
from the Parthian exile, was disqualified because Antigonus had
mutilated him (Ant. xv.2.1–4 [11–22]). Herod chose a priest who had no
influence. Alexandra, who was Herod’s mother-in-law as well as Hyrcanus
II’s daughter, was infuriated by his choice of a priest outside the
Hasmonean line, especially because he overlooked her own sixteen-
year-old son, Aristobulus III, the brother of Herod’s wife Mariamne.
Finally, Alexandra, with Cleopatra’s pressure upon Antony, forced Herod
to set aside Ananel (which was unlawful because a high priest was to
hold the office for life) and make Aristobulus III high priest when he
was only seventeen years old (late 36 or early 35 b.c.). Because of
Aristobulus III’s growing popularity, Herod managed to have him
accidentally drowned in a swimming pool at Jericho right after the Feast
of Tabernacles. Herod arranged for an elaborate funeral. Although the
people never questioned the official verisons, Alexandra believed that
her son had been murdered. She reported this to Cleopatra, who persuaded
Antony to summon Herod for an account of his actions. Realizing that his
life was in danger, Herod put his wife Mariamne under surveillance and
secretly instructed those in charge to kill Mariamne if he were killed
so that she would not become someone else’s lover. By eloquence and
bribery, Herod persuaded Antony to free him of any charges. Upon his
return in 34 b.c. Herod realized that Mariamne found out about his plan
to kill her, but he also heard the charge that she had an affair with
the one who was to watch her while he was away. She denied the charge,
and after some debate they were reconciled. Herod surmised that some of
the troubles were caused by her mother Alexandra, so he put her in
chains and under guard (Ant. xv.2.5–3.9 [23-87]; BJ i.22.2–5 [437–444]).

Antony was defeated by Octavius in the Battle of Actium on 2 September,
31 b.c. Herod, in the spring of 30 b.c., went to Rhodes to meet Octavius
and convince him that he was loyal. Before Herod left for Rhodes, he
sentenced and executed Hyrcanus II, the only remaining rival claimant to
the throne. Also, he had Mariamne and her mother Alexandra placed under
observation and instructed two guards to execute them if he did not
return from Rhodes. At their meeting in Rhodes in the spring of 30 b.c.,
Octavius was convinced of Herod’s loyalty and confirmed his royal rank
(Ant. xv.5.1–6.7 [108-201]; BJ i.19.3–20.3 [369–395]).

While Herod was at Rhodes, however, Mariamne found out from the two
guards that she was to be killed in the event that he did not return.
This caused an intense situation for Herod, and after a complicated
series of events, he condemned and finally executed Mariamne at the end
of 29 b.c. (Ant. xv.7.1–5 [202–236]). But Herod never accepted
Mariamne’s death. He fell ill, and because his recovery was doubtful,
Alexandra tried to win over two fortified places in Jerusalem so that
she could secure the throne. When Herod heard of this plot, he had her
executed in 28 b.c. (Ant. xv.7.6–8 [237–252]). Finally, the governor of
Idumea, Costobarus (husband of Herod’s sister Salome), who had earlier
conspired with Cleopatra against Herod, once again came under suspicion
for alleged pro-Hasmonean sympathies. Herod killed Costobarus and his
followers, the influential sons of Babas, who remained loyal to
Antigonus. Herod now could console himself that all of the male
relatives of Hyrcanus II (who could dispute the occupancy of the throne)
were no longer living (Ant. xv.7.9f [253-266]).

The only Hasmoneans who would claim the throne were Herod’s own sons by
Mariamne. She bore him five children. The two daughters were Salampsio
and Cypros (Ant. xviii.5.4 [130–32]). The youngest son died during the
course of his education in Rome (BJ i.22.2 [435]). The older sons were
Alexander and Aristobulus (Ant. xvi.4.6 [133]; xvii.5.4 [134]). Herod
made out a will in 22 b.c. that would make these two sons his
successors. Both of these sons had no real fondness for their father,
for he had killed their mother. When Herod heard and believed the rumors
that these two sons planned to kill him to avenge their mother’s death,
he made out a new will in 13 b.c. declaring Antipater, son of his first
wife Doris, the sole heir (BJ i.23.2 [451]). Antipater realized that
Herod could again change his mind about the will, so he repeatedly wrote
letters from Rome, kindling his father’s anger against Alexander and
Aristobulus and ingratiating himself. Finally, in Italy in 12 b.c.,
Herod brought Alexander and Aristobulus to trial before Augustus to
prove that they were not worthy of the throne. The outcome of the trial,
however, was reconciliation, and when they returned home Herod made out
his third will, naming Antipater as his first successor and after him
Alexander and Aristobulus (Ant. xvi.3.1–4.6 [66-135]; BJ i.23.1–5
[445–466]).

Scarcely had they arrived home when Antipater, being helped by Herod’s
sister Salome and Herod’s brother Pheroras, began to slander the two
sons of Mariamne. Alexander and Aristobulus became decidedly more
hostile in their attitude, Herod became more morbid about the situation,
and Antipater played on Herod’s morbid fears. Although there was a
reconciliation in 10 b.c., finally in 7 b.c. with Augustus’s instruction
his sons were tried at Berytus (Beirut) and found guilty. Herod had
Alexander and Aristobulus executed by strangulation at Sebaste, where he
had married their mother thirty years before (Ant. xvi.8.1–11.8
[229-404]; BJ i.24.7–27.6 [488-551]).

The remaining Hasmonean influence came after Herod’s death. Aristobulus
had married Bernice, the daughter of Herod’s sister Salome, and they had
three notable children (BJ i.28.1 [552f]). First, there was Herod who
was king of Chalcis from a.d. 41 to 48. Second, there was Herod Agrippa
I who was king of the Jews from a.d. 37 to 44 (Acts 12), being succeeded
by his son Herod Agrippa II, who was king of the Jews from a.d. 50 to
100 (Acts 25–26). Third, there was Herodias who married Herod Antipas,
who ruled as tetrarch over Galilee and Perea from 4 b.c. to a.d. 39 (Mt.
14:3–12; Mk. 6:17–29; Lk. 3:1, 19f; 13:31–33; 23:6–12). Herodias had a
daughter, Salome, from a previous marriage, who married Herod Antipas’s
brother, Philip the tetrarch (Lk. 3:1).

***Bibliography.***—E.R. Bevan, *The House of Seleucus* (1902);
*Jerusalem under the High-Priests* (1904), pp. 100–162; CAH, VIII
(1930), 495–533; IX (1932), 397–417; E. Bickerman, *From Ezra to the
Last of the Maccabees* (1947), pp. 136–182; S. Tedesche and S. Zeitlin,
*First Book of Maccabees* (1950); J. C. Dancy, *comm on I Maccabees*
(1954); V. Tcherikover, *Hellenistic Civilization and the Jews* (1959),
pp. 235–265, 403f; S. Zeitlin, *Rise and Fall of the Judaean State*, I
(1962), 141–201, 317–411; D. S. Russell, *The Jews from Alexander to
Herod* (1967), pp. 57–102; B. Reicke, *New Testament Era* (Engtr 1968),
pp. 63–107; Y. Aharoni and M. AviYonah, *Macmillan Bible Atlas* (1968),
pp. 129–139; J. R. Bartlett, *First and Second Books of the Maccabees*
(CBC, 1973); E. Schürer, HJP2, I, 189–242, 267–286.

H. W. Hoehner

