---
title: Macedonia
template: lesson.jade
---


Macedonia
=========

From
[Macedonia](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Macedonia_(ancient_kingdom)),
an article in Wikipedia.

Macedonia or Macedon (from Greek: Μακεδονία, Makedonía) was an ancient
kingdom, centered in the northeastern part of the Greek peninsula,[1]
bordered by Epirus to the west, Paeonia to the north, the region of
Thrace to the east and Thessaly to the south. The rise of Macedon, from
a small kingdom at the periphery of Classical Greek affairs, to one
which came to dominate the entire Hellenic world, occurred under the
reign of Philip II. For a brief period, after the conquests of Alexander
the Great, it became the most powerful state in the world, controlling a
territory that included the former Persian empire, stretching as far as
the Indus River; at that time it inaugurated the Hellenistic period of
Ancient Greek civilization.

The Roman province of Macedonia (Latin: Provincia Macedoniae, Greek:
Επαρχία Μακεδονίας) was officially established in 146 BC, after the
Roman general Quintus Caecilius Metellus defeated Andriscus of Macedon,
the last Ancient King of Macedon in 148 BC, and after the four client
republics (“tetrarchy”) established by Rome in the region were
dissolved. The province incorporated ancient Macedon, Epirus, Thessaly,
and parts of Illyria, Paeonia and Thrace.

**The following is from “The Life and Epistles of St. Paul,” by W. J.
Conybeare and J. S. Howson**

Macedonia, in its popular sense, may be described as a region bounded by
a great semicircle of mountains, beyond which the streams flow westward
to the Adriatic, or northward and eastward to the Danube and the Euxine.
This mountain barrier sends down branches to the sea on the eastern or
Thracian frontier, over against Thasos and Samothrace; and on the south
shuts out the plain of Thessaly, and rises near the shore to the high
summits of Pelion, Ossa, and the snowy Olympus. The space thus enclosed
is intersected by two great rivers. One of these is Homer’s \`wide
flowing Axius,” which directs its course past Pella, the ancient
metropolis of the Macedonian kings, and the birthplace of Alexander, to
the low levels in the neighborhood of Thessalonica, where other rivers
flow near it into the Thermaic gulf.

The other is the Strymon, which brings the produce of the great inland
level of Serres by Lake Cercinus to the sea at Amphipolis, and beyond
which was Philippi, the military outpost that commemorated the
successful conquests of Alexander’s father. Between the mouths of these
two rivers a remarkable tract of country, which is insular rather than
continental, projects into the Archipelago, and divides itself into
three points, on the furthest of which Mount Athos rises nearly into the
region of perpetual snow. Part of St. Paul’s path between Philippi and
Berea lay across the neck of this peninsula. The whole of his route was
over historical ground. At Philippi he was close to the confines of
Thracian barbarism, and on the spot where the last battle was fought in
defense of the Republic. At Berea he came near the mountains, beyond
which is the region of Classical Greece, and close to the spot where the
battle was fought which reduced Macedonia to a province”

If we wish to view Macedonia as a province, some modifications must be
introduced into the preceding description. It applies, indeed, with
sufficient exactness to the country on its first conquest by the Romans
. The rivers already alluded to, define the four districts into which it
was divided. Macedonia Prima was the region east of the Strymon, of
which Amphipolis was the capital; Macedonia Secmida lay between the
Strymon and the Axius, and Thessalonica was its metropolis; and the
other two regions were situated to the south towards Thessaly, and on
the mountains to the west. This was the division adopted by Paulus
Aemilius after the battle of Pydna. But the arrangement was only
temporary.

The whole of Macedonia, along with some adjacent territories, was made
one province, and centralized under the jurisdiction of a proconsuls who
resided at Thessalonica. This province included Thessaly, and extended
over the mountain chain which had been the western boundary of ancient
Macedonia, so as to embrace a seaboard of considerable length on the
shore of the Adriatic. The political limits, in this part of the Empire,
are far more easily discriminated than those with which we have been
lately occupied (Chapter 8). Three provinces divided the whole surface
which extends from the basin of the Danube to Cape Matapan. All of them
are familiar to us in the writings of St. Paul.

The extent of Macedonia has just been defined. Its relations with the
other provinces were as follows. On the north west it was contiguous to
Illyricum, which was spread down the shore of the Adriatic nearly to the
same point to which the Austrian territory now extends, fringing the
Mohammedan empire with a Christian border. A hundred miles to the
southward, at the Acroceraunian promontory, it touched Achaia, the
boundary of which province ran thence in an irregular line to the bay of
Thermopylae and the north of Euboea, including Epirus, and excluding
Thessaly. Achaia and Macedonia were traversed many times by the Apostle;
and he could say, when he was hoping to travel to Rome, that he had
preached the Gospel \`round about unto Illyricum.” (Rom. 15:19)

When we allude to Rome, and think of the relation of the City to the
provinces, we are inevitably reminded of the military roads; and here,
across the breadth of Macedonia, was one of the greatest roads of the
Empire. It is evident that, after Constantinople was founded, a line of
communication between the Eastern and Western capitals was of the utmost
moment; but the Via Egnatia was constructed long before that period.
Strabo, in the reign of Augustus, informs us that it was regularly made
and marked out by milestones, from Dyrrhachium on the Adriatic, to
Cypselus on the Hebrus in Thrace; and, even before the close of the
republic, we find Cicero speaking, in one of his orations, of \`that
military way of ours, which connects us with the Hellespont.”

Certain districts on the European side of the Hellespont had been part
of the legacy of King Attalus, and the simultaneous possession of
Macedonia, Asia, and Bithynia, with the prospect of further conquests in
the East, made this line of communication absolutely necessary. When St.
Paul was on the Roman road at Troas or Philippi, he was on a road which
led to the gates of Rome. It was the same pavement which he afterwards
trod at Appii Forum and the Three Taverns (Acts 28:15). The nearest
parallel which the world has seen of the imperial roads is the present
European railway system.

The Hellespont and the Bosphorus, in the reign of Claudius, were what
the Straits of Dover and Holyhead are now; and even the passage from
Brundusium in Italy, to Dyrrhachium and Apollonia in Macedonia, was only
a tempestuous ferry, only one of those difficulties of nature which the
Romans would have overcome if they could, and which the boldest of the
Romans dared to defy. From Dyrrhachium and Apollonia, the Via Egnatia,
strictly so called, extended a distance of five hundred miles, to the
Hebrus, in Thrace. Thessalonica was about half way between these remote
points, and Philippi was the last important town in the province of
Macedonia.

