---
title: "Manna"
pdf: "manna.pdf"
description: "Manna -  Manna means \"What is it?\" in the Hebrew."
template: lesson.jade
---


**Manna 2**

Manna

by

Rev. Mark Perkins, Pastor  
Denver Bible Church  
326 E. Colorado Ave.  
Denver, CO. 80210

**Manna** - Num 11:6; Josh 5:12; Psa 105:40; Ex 16.

1. Name. Manna means “What is it?” in the Hebrew. This is after the
response of the Jews when they saw it for the first time.

2. Physical Description:

a. Ex 16:13-14,21 “and in the morning there was a layer of dew around
the camp. When the layer of dew evaporated, behold, on the surface of
the wilderness there was a fine flake -like thing, fine as the frost on
the ground… but when the sun grew hot, it would melt.”

b. Ex 16:20, “But they did not listen to Moses, and some left part of it
until morning, and it bred worms and became foul; and Moses was angry
with them.”

c. Ex 16:31, “And the house of Israel named it manna, and it was like
coriander seed, white; and its taste was like wafers with honey.”

d. Num 11:7, “Now the Manna was like coriander seed, and its appearance
like that of bdellium.”

e. Num 11:8, “The people would go about and gather it and grind it
between two millstones or beat it in the mortar, and boil it in the pot
and make cakes with it; and its taste was as the taste of cakes baked
with oil.”

3. It was eaten for the duration of the wilderness experience of the
children of Israel - Ex

Its cessation after 40 years was significant enough to be recorded by
Joshua, Josh 5:12.

4. Manna was a miraculous grace provision from God, Ex 16:32, "Then
Moses said, ’This is what the Lord has commanded, ’Let an omerful of it
be kept throughout your generations, that they may see the bread that I
fed

you in the wilderness, when I brought you out of the land of Egypt.’"

5. After a while the children of Israel became dissatisfied with the
monotony of manna, Num 11:4-6, “And the rabble who were among them had
greedy desires; and also the sons of Israel wept again and said, ‘Who
will give us meat to eat? We remember the fish which we used to eat free
in Egypt, the cucumbers and the melons and the leeks and the onions and
the garlic, but now our appetite is gone. There is nothing at all to
look at except this manna.’”

a. Note that this was a rejection of the grace of God, and therefore
called into question His Holy character.

b. Note the desire to return to Egypt. The Old Testament records the
expression of this desire no less than eight times - it was probably
muttered on many other occasions.

6. It was the Lord’s original plan to give the people meat for a month.
So much so that it would come out of their nostrils. Moses failed to
believe the Lord, and thus a plague was sent.

7. The lust of the rabble was met with quail by the millions - Num
11:31, “Now there went forth a wind from the Lord, and it brought quail
from the sea, and let them fall beside the camp, about a day’s journey
on this side and a day’s journey on the other side, all around the camp,
and they spread them out for themselves all around the camp.”

a. Those who went t o gather quail would have had to go through the
manna fall in order to reach the dead birds.

b. After a day in the desert sun the quail was well past its prime. In
fact, the plague struck those who were foolish enough to eat it. v.33,
“While the meat was still between their teeth, before it was chewed, the
anger of the Lord was kindled against the people, and the Lord struck
the people with a very severe plague.”

7. This punitive discipline was designed to wake up the Israelites and
renew their dependence on logistical grace.

8. Christ used manna to illustrate the grace assets related to salvation
and eternal life, John 6:31-33, “Our fathers ate the manna in the
wilderness; as it is written, ‘He gave them bread out of heaven to eat.’
Jesus therefore said to them, ’Truly truly I say to you, it is not Moses
who has given you the bread out of heaven, but it is My Father who gives
you the true bread out of Heaven. For the bread of God is that which
comes down out of heaven, and gives life to the world.”

9. The grumbling of Israel is analogous to any time that we call into
question the grace provision of God, whether in spiritual or physical
form.

10. This failure was memorialized by the placement of a pot of manna
inside of the ark of the covenant. In spite of the failure, the covenant
continued, covered by the ark of the covenant.

