---
title: "Mary's Song"
pdf: "marysong.pdf"
description: "Luke's narrative now turns to the story of Mary, the mother of our Lord."
template: lesson.jade
---


**The Song of Mary 3**

**The Song of Mary**

**by Mark Perkins, Pastor, Front Range Bible Church, Denver, Colorado
USA**

### Introduction.

Luke’s narrative now turns to the story of Mary, the mother of our Lord.

Mary is clearly portrayed as the biological mother of Jesus Christ.
There was nothing special about her makeup that she was the mother of
our Lord nothing that made her unique from all other women. She was a
woman who loved God, and she too waited for the Messiah. In fact she
waited faithfully, unlike so many of her contemporaries, both women and
men.

Mary was born into sin, like every other female child before and after
her. She does not have special access to God just because she conceived
and gave birth to Christ. She is no different as far as we are concerned
than any other mature believer. Christ Himself warns against Mariolatry
in Luke 11:27-28.

### The Arrival of an angel.

Luke 1:26-28, “Now in the sixth month the angel Gabriel was went from
God to a city in Galilee, called Nazareth, to a virgin engaged to a man
whose name was Joseph, of the descendants of David; and the virgin’s
name was Mary. And coming in, he said to her, ‘Hail, woman who has been
graced out. (kecharitomene) The Lord is with you.’”

Again, here is the angel Gabriel, the messenger of God, one of the
highest ranking of all the angels. He is sent to announce to Mary the
imminent arrival of the Messiah. Of the genealogies of these two, we
already know much. Repetition is not necessary.

As the angel “beams in”, he issues a greeting to her. The greeting means
literally, “woman who has been graced out”. God is the only subject ever
used by CHARITOO.

### A Conversation with an Angel, Luke 1:29-38

Notice that Mary is not fazed at all by Gabriel’s angelic appearance.
She is unique in this regard. Daniel trembles, Zacharias fears, the
shepherds are terribly frightened, and Mary is troubled by the greeting
of this angel! She begins to DIALOGEI in her own mind. She is thinking
it through, having a dialogue with herself “What did this angel mean by
his greeting?” She was troubled by it.

The angel alleviates her troubled mind and tells her the exact meaning
of the greeting.

“You have found grace from the side of God.” Let me quote from Bauer,
Arndt, and Gingrich: “…denotes a person, and indicates that something
proceeds from this person.” Mary has found it because she looked for it.
She is a wonderful believer from the age of Israel. In her great
humility she cannot think that she has found grace, for she has already
prospered in knowing God.

“You will conceive in your womb and bear a child.”

This certainly would have come as a surprise, since Mary was a virgin.
She certainly understood the consequences of what the angel was saying.
She would be subject to disgrace, and maybe the risk of capital
punishment. There are great and terrible implications to this.

“And you will name Him Jesus.” His name means salvation.

“He will be great, and will be called the Son of the Most High; and the
Lord God will give Him the throne of His father David; and he will reign
over the house of Jacob forever; and kingdom will have no end.”

There could be no mistaking it now. She was to be the mother of the
Messiah. He is the Son of God he will sit on David’s throne his kingdom
will last forever his kingdom will know no boundaries. These are all
very clear. She is to bear the Messiah.

Mary’s response is simple “How will this come about, since I am a
virgin?” Mary’s response is not arrogant, unlike that of Zacharias. She
is just curious. She did know the basics of reproduction. In fact, it is
my impression that the Hebrew society was much more open about such
things than our own. She was more than willing to believe.

Gabriel tells her as best he can the specifics on how she will conceive.
“The Holy Spirit will appear over you, and the power of the most high
will overshadow you; and therefore the holy one who is born will be
called the Son of God.”

This is the essence of the virgin birth. It is really quite clinical in
nature. God the Holy Spirit performs the operation by his omnipotence,
and adds the unpolluted chromosomes to Mary’s ovum.

### The Two Mothers are United

Luke 1:39-45, “Now at this time Mary arose and went with haste to the
hill country, to a city of Judah, and entered the house of Zacharias and
greeted Elizabeth. And it came about that when Elizabeth heard Mary’s
greeting, the fetus leaped in her womb; and Elizabeth was filled with
the Holy Spirit. And she cried out with a loud voice, and said, ‘Blessed
among women are you, and blessed is the fruit of your womb! And how has
it happened to me, that the mother of my Lord should come to me? For
behold, when the sound of your greeting reached my ears, the fetus
leaped in my womb for joy. And blessed is she who believed that there
would be a fulfillment of what had been spoken to her by the Lord.’”

We are not sure why Mary got up and went ‘with haste’ to visit Elizabeth
at least the text does not come right out and tell us. However, we do
know that Elizabeth is in a funk over the timing of her pregnancy. She
does not want to be a circus sideshow act she wanted children while she
was still young.

We also know that Mary and Elizabeth were cousins, so it was likely that
Mary knew both of Elizabeth’s pregnancy and her mental state. Finally,
we know that as soon as she know about her own immaculate conception,
she left to be with Elizabeth.

Therefore, it is likely that the combination of the above conditions led
Mary to visit Elizabeth. Just as soon as Mary enters the house and
speaks her greeting, just as soon as that greeting enters the ears of
Elizabeth, the fetus leaps in her womb. This leaping was reflex motility
in response to the excitement of Elizabeth on hearing the voice of her
cousin.

Immediately Elizabeth is filled with the Holy Spirit. This is for the
purpose of prophecy what she says next is inspired by God the Holy
Spirit. Luke always does us the courtesy of telling us when one is under
the filling of the Spirit. Elizabeth literally “sounds off with a great
cry” ANEPHO.NE.SEN KRAUGE. MEGALE. and she says, “Blessed are you among
women and blessed is the fruit of your womb.”

This first part of what she says confirms that when she wants to talk
about a human being she uses one expression. Mary is blessed because she
is chosen to bear and nourish and raise the Son of God. The fruit of her
womb (not yet ripe nor picked) will also be blessed, because of His life
and death.

The word for blessing here is EULOGEO, which means to speak well of
someone. EULOGEO is blessing with reference to reputation.

Furthermore, Elizabeth says, “and why does this happen to me, that the
mother of my Lord should come to me?” Elizabeth employs a rhetorical
question here. She does not expect an answer she knows it. Elizabeth
knows that the child she will bear will prepare the way for Christ. She
answers her own question in the next verse.

Elizabeth now gives an explanation of her previous words, “for behold,
as the sound of your greeting came into may ears, the fetus in my womb
leaped for joy.”

Elizabeth explains to Mary her rhetorical question, and her statement
about blessing. She is telling Mary that at the moment she heard her
greeting (and at the moment she was filled with the Spirit) the child
leaped in her womb. It all came together at that moment Elizabeth
understood everything Mary the greeting her own pregnancy God’s plan for
the ages.

Finally, Elizabeth summarizes the entire experience the lifetime of that
moment, “and blessed is she who believed that the things that were
spoken will be fulfilled in her by the Lord.”

Elizabeth is telling us that she finally understands it all, and she is
complementing Mary on her immediate belief in the word of God. The word
for blessing here is different from the one above. This is macharia, or
mental attitude contentedness. Elizabeth is saying in a roundabout way
that she missed the boat that she did not immediately respond as she
should have, and so she missed the blessing.

The important thing is that Elizabeth now understands everything with
clarity. This verse also answers the previous question why Mary came to
visit Elizabeth. It was so that Elizabeth could recognize her own error,
and turn around.

### Mary’s Song, Luke 1:46-56

This is the great prayer of worship from Mary. It is a prayer that is
based on the utter confidence of one who has known and relied on the
capabilities of God.

Let’s look at what Mary knows about God from learning in the ritual plan
of God. She knows the architecture of her own soul that she has emotion,
mentality, and a human spirit. She knows that God is the source of her
salvation. She calls Him her savior. She understands the omnipresence
and omniscience of God when she says that “He considered” her humble
state.

EPIBLEPO is the verb here, and it means to look down upon something, and
to understand it. God looked down upon Mary and He fully understood her
humble state. God also knew exactly what to do about it. That is the
expression of his omniscience.

Mary understands the omnipotence of God she calls Him the Mighty One,
and she knows exactly what God has accomplished.

She understands the perfection, or holiness of God. When she says, “Holy
is His name”, she says, perfect is his essence.

She understands the implications of the birth of the Messiah. She
praises God for the strategic victory of the angelic conflict, and here
is her reasoning. If God can accomplish the virgin conception and birth
of the Messiah, He can accomplish anything else. What is the problem to
go from one impossibility to the next.

Mary was a patriot, and she understood the implications of the Messiah
on her nation. She related the Messiah to the kingdom of God, and indeed
she already understood some of the kingdom concepts even before Christ
ever explained them.

She understood the difference between being rich and poor. This metaphor
has nothing to do with food or hunger in the literal sense. It has
everything to do with a desire for a relationship with God. It is all
about true humility.

Those who are humble and hungry for a relationship with God will receive
the intrinsically good. Those who are rich in their own minds will go
away empty handed.

Mary understood the mercy of God, and its implications. She knew the
history of her nation and its heroes.

====================

