---
title: "Moses' Early Life"
pdf: "mosesearlylife.pdf"
description: "exposition of Exodus 2 (Keil and Delitszch)."
tableOfContents: false
template: topic.jade
---


Birth and Education of Moses; Flight from Egypt; Life in Midian

From: Commentary on the Old Testament, C. F. Keil and F. Delitzsch

**Ex. 2:1–10.** Birth and Education of Moses.—Whilst Pharaoh was urging
forward the extermination of the Israelites, God was preparing their
emancipation. According to the divine purpose, the murderous edict of
the king was to lead to the training and preparation of the human
deliverer of Israel.

**Ex. 2:1, 2.** At the time when all the Hebrew boys were ordered to be
thrown into the Nile, *“there went* (הָלַךְ contributes to the pictorial
character of the account, and serves to bring out its importance, just
as in Gen. 35:22, Deut. 31:1) *a man of the house of Levi*—according to
Ex. 6:20 and Num. 26:59, it was Amram, of the Levitical family of
Kohath—*and married a daughter* (i.e., a descendant) *of Levi,”* named
Jochebed, who bore him a son, viz., Moses. From Ex. 6:20 we learn that
Moses was not the first child of this marriage, but his brother Aaron;
and from v. 7 of this chapter, it is evident that when Moses was born,
his sister Miriam was by no means a child (Num. 26:59). Both of these
had been born before the murderous edict was issued (Ex. 1:22). They are
not mentioned here, because the only question in hand was the birth and
deliverance of Moses, the future deliverer of Israel. *“When the mother
saw that the child was beautiful”* (טֹוב as in Gen. 6:2; LXX ἀστεῖος),
she began to think about his preservation. The very beauty of the child
was to her “a peculiar token of divine approval, and a sign that God had
some special design concerning him” (*Delitzsch* on Heb. 11:23). The
expression ἀστεῖος τῷ Θεῷ in Acts 7:20 points to this. She therefore hid
the new-born child for three months, in the hope of saving him alive.
This hope, however, neither sprang from a revelation made to her husband
before the birth of her child, that he was appointed to be the saviour
of Israel, as *Josephus* affirms (Ant. ii. 9, 3), either from his own
imagination or according to the belief of his age, nor from her faith in
the patriarchal promises, but primarily from the natural love of parents
for their offspring. And if the hiding of the child is praised in Heb.
11:23 as an act of faith, that faith was manifested in their not obeying
the king’s commandment, but fulfilling without fear of man all that was
required by that parental love, which God approved, and which was
rendered all the stronger by the beauty of the child, and in their
confident assurance, in spite of all apparent impossibility, that their
effort would be successful (vid., *Delitzsch ut supra*). This confidence
was shown in the means adopted by the mother to save the child, when she
could hide it no longer.

**Ex. 2:3.** She placed the infant in an ark of bulrushes by the bank of
the Nile, hoping that possibly it might be found by some compassionate
hand, and still be delivered. The *dagesh dirim.* in הַצְּפִינֹו serves
to separate the consonant in which it stands from the syllable which
follows (vid., *Ewald,* § 92*c;* Ges. § 20, 2*b*). תֵּבַת גֹּמֶא a
little chest of rushes. The use of the word תֵּבָה (*ark*) is probably
intended to call to mind the ark in which Noah was saved (vid., Gen.
6:14). גֹּמֶא, *papyrus,* the paper reed: a kind of rush which was very
common in ancient Egypt, but has almost entirely disappeared, or, as
*Pruner* affirms (*ägypt. Naturgesch.* p. 55), is nowhere to be found.
It had a triangular stalk about the thickness of a finger, which grew to
the height of ten feet; and from this the lighter Nile boats were made,
whilst the peeling of the plant was used for sails, mattresses, mats,
sandals, and other articles, but chiefly for the preparation of paper
(vid., *Celsii Hierobot.* ii. pp. 137ff.; *Hengstenberg,* Egypt and the
Books of Moses, pp. 85, 86, transl.). וַתַּחְמְרָה, for תַּחְמְרָהּ with
mappik omitted: *and cemented* (pitched) *it with* חֵמָר *bitumen,* the
asphalt of the Dead Sea, to fasten the papyrus stalks, *and with pitch,*
to make it water-tight, *and put it in the reeds by the bank of the
Nile,* at a spot, as the sequel shows, where she knew that the king’s
daughter was accustomed to bathe. For “the sagacity of the mother led
her, no doubt, so to arrange the whole, that the issue might be just
what is related in vv. 5–9” (*Baumgarten*). The daughter stationed
herself a little distance off, to see what happened to the child (v. 4).
This sister of Moses was most probably the Miriam who is frequently
mentioned afterwards (Num. 26:59). תֵּתַצַּב for תִּתְיַצֵּב. The
infinitive form דֵּעָה as in Gen. 46:3.

**Ex. 2:5.** Pharaoh’s daughter is called *Thermouthis* or *Merris* in
Jewish tradition, and by the Rabbins בתיה. עַל־הַיְאֹר is to be
connected with תֵּרֶד, and the construction with עַל to be explained as
referring to the descent into (upon) the river from the rising bank. The
fact that a king’s daughter should bathe in the open river is certainly
opposed to the customs of the modern, Mohammedan East, where this is
only done by women of the lower orders, and that in remote places
(*Lane,* Manners and Customs); but it is in harmony with the customs of
ancient Egypt,<sup>3</sup> and in perfect agreement with the notions of
the early Egyptians respecting the sanctity of the Nile, to which divine
honours even were paid (vid., *Hengstenberg’s* Egypt, etc. pp. 109,
110), and with the belief, which was common to both ancient and modern
Egyptians, in the power of its waters to impart fruitfulness and prolong
life (vid., *Strabo,* xv. p. 695, etc., and *Seetzen,* Travels iii. p.
204).

**Ex. 2:6ff.** The exposure of the child at once led the king’s daughter
to conclude that it was *one of the Hebrews’ children.* The fact that
she took compassion on the weeping child, and notwithstanding the king’s
command (Ex. 1:22) took it up and had it brought up (of course, without
the knowledge of the king), may be accounted for from the love to
children which is innate in the female sex, and the superior adroitness
of a mother’s heart, which co-operated in this case, though without
knowing or intending it, in the realization of the divine plan of
salvation. *Competens fuit divina vindicta, ut suis affectibus puniatur
parricida et filiae provisione pereat qui genitrices interdixerat
parturire* (*August.* Sermo 89 de temp.).

**Ex. 2:9.** With the directions, *“Take this child away* (הֵילִיכִי for
הֹולִיכִי used here in the sense of leading, bringing, carrying away, as
in Zech. 5:10, Eccl. 10:20) *and suckle it for me,”* the king’s daughter
gave the child to its mother, who was unknown to her, and had been
fetched as a nurse.

**Ex. 2:10.** When the child had grown large, i.e., had been weaned
(יִגְדַּל as in Gen. 21:8), the mother, who acted as nurse, brought it
back to the queen’s daughter, who then adopted it as her own son, and
called it *Moses* (מֹשֶׁה): *“for,”* she said, *“out of the water have I
drawn him”* (מְשִׁיתִהוּ). As Pharaoh’s daughter gave this name to the
child as her adopted son, it must be an Egyptian name. The Greek form of
the name, Μωὺσῆς (LXX), also points to this, as *Josephus* affirms.
“Thermuthis,” he says, “imposed this name upon him, from what had
happened when he was put into the river; for the Egyptians call water
Mo, and those who are rescued from the water Uses” (Ant. ii. 9, 6,
Whiston’s translation). The correctness of this statement is confirmed
by the Coptic, which is derived from the old Egyptian.<sup>4</sup> Now,
though we find the name explained in the text from the Hebrew מָשָׁה,
this is not to be regarded as a philological or etymological
explanation, but as a theological interpretation, referring to the
importance of the person rescued from the water to the Israelitish
nation. In the lips of an Israelite, the name *Mouje,* which was so
little suited to the Hebrew organs of speech, might be involuntarily
altered into *Moseh;* “and this transformation became an unintentional
prophecy, for the person *drawn out* did become, in fact, the *drawer
out”* (*Kurtz*). Consequently *Knobel’s* supposition, that the writer
regarded מֹשֶׁה as a participle *Poal* with the ם dropped, is to be
rejected as inadmissible.—There can be no doubt that, as the adopted son
of Pharaoh’s daughter, Moses received a thoroughly Egyptian training,
and was educated in all the wisdom of the Egyptians, as Stephen states
in Acts 7:22 in accordance with Jewish tradition.<sup>5</sup> Through
such an education as this, he received just the training required for
the performance of the work to which God had called him. Thus the wisdom
of Egypt was employed by the wisdom of God for the establishment of the
kingdom of God.

**Ex. 2:11–20.** Flight of Moses from Egypt to Midian.—The education of
Moses at the Egyptian court could not extinguish the feeling that he
belonged to the people of Israel. Our history does not inform us how
this feeling, which was inherited from his parents and nourished in him
when an infant by his mother’s milk, was fostered still further after he
had been handed over to Pharaoh’s daughter, and grew into a firm,
decided consciousness of will. All that is related is, how this
consciousness broke forth at length in the full-grown man, in the
slaying of the Egyptian who had injured a Hebrew (vv. 11, 12), and in
the attempt to reconcile two Hebrew men who were quarrelling (vv. 13,
14). Both of these occurred “in those days,” i.e., in the time of the
Egyptian oppression, when Moses had become great (יִגְדַּל as in Gen.
21:20), i.e., had grown to be a man. According to tradition he was then
forty years old (Acts 7:23). What impelled him to this was not “a carnal
ambition and longing for action,” or a desire to attract the attention
of his brethren, but fiery love to his brethren or fellow-countrymen, as
is shown in the expression, “One of his brethren” (v. 11), and deep
sympathy with them in their oppression and sufferings; whilst, at the
same time, they undoubtedly displayed the fire of his impetuous nature,
and the ground-work for his future calling. It was from this point of
view that Stephen cited these facts (Acts 7:25, 26), for the purpose of
proving to the Jews of his own age, that they had been from time
immemorial “stiff-necked and uncircumcised in heart and ears” (v. 51).
And this view is the correct one. Not only did Moses intend to help his
brethren when he thus appeared among them, but this forcible
interference on behalf of his brethren could and should have aroused the
thought in their minds, that God would send them salvation through him.
“But they understood not” (Acts 7:25). At the same time Moses thereby
declared that he would no longer “be called the son of Pharaoh’s
daughter; and chose rather to suffer affliction with the people of God,
than to enjoy the pleasures of sin for a season; esteeming the reproach
of Christ greater riches than the treasures of Egypt” (Heb. 11:24–26;
see *Delitzsch in loc.*). And this had its roots in faith (πίστει). But
his conduct presents another aspect also, which equally demands
consideration. His zeal for the welfare of his brethren urged him
forward to present himself as the umpire and judge of his brethren
before God had called him to this, and drove him to the crime of murder,
which cannot be excused as resulting from a sudden ebullition of
wrath.<sup>6</sup> For he acted with evident deliberation. *“He looked
this way and that way; and when he saw no one, he slew the Egyptian, and
hid him in the sand”* (v. 12). Through his life at the Egyptian court
his own natural inclinations had been formed to rule, and they
manifested themselves on this occasion in an ungodly way. This was
thrown in his teeth by the man “in the wrong” (הָרָשָׁע, v. 13), who was
striving with his brother and doing him an injury: “Who made thee a
ruler and judge over us” (v. 14)? and so far he was right. The murder of
the Egyptian had also become known; and as soon as Pharaoh heard of it,
he sought to kill Moses, who fled into the land of Midian in fear for
his life (v. 15). Thus dread of Pharaoh’s wrath drove Moses from Egypt
into the desert. For all that, it is stated in Heb. 11:27, that “by
faith (πίστει) Moses forsook Egypt, not fearing the wrath of the king.”
This faith, however, he manifested not by fleeing—his flight was rather
a sign of timidity—but by leaving Egypt; in other words, by renouncing
his position in Egypt, where he might possibly have softened down the
kings’ wrath, and perhaps even have brought help and deliverance to his
brethren the Hebrews. By the fact that he did not allow such human hopes
to lead him to remain in Egypt, and was not afraid to increase the
king’s anger by his flight, he manifested faith in the invisible One as
though he saw Him, commending not only himself, but his oppressed
nation, to the care and protection of God (vid., *Delitzsch* on Heb.
11:27).

The situation of the land of Midian, to which Moses fled, cannot be
determined with certainty. The Midianites, who were descended from
Abraham through Keturah (Gen. 25:2, 4), had their principal settlements
on the eastern side of the Elanitic Gulf, from which they spread
northwards into the fields of Moab (Gen. 36:35; Num. 22:4, 7; 25:6, 17;
31:1ff.; Judg. 6:1ff.), and carried on a caravan trade through Canaan to
Egypt (Gen. 37:28, 36; Isa. 60:6). On the eastern side of the Elanitic
Gulf, and five days’ journey from Aela, there stood the town of
*Madian,* the ruins of which are mentioned by *Edrisi* and *Abulfeda,*
who also speak of a well there, from which Moses watered the flocks of
his father-in-law *Shoeib* (i.e., Jethro). But we are precluded from
fixing upon this as the home of Jethro by Ex. 3:1, where Moses is said
to have come to Horeb, when he drove Jethro’s sheep behind the desert.
The Midianites on the eastern side of the Elanitic Gulf could not
possibly have led their flocks as far as Horeb for pasturage. We must
assume, therefore, that one branch of the Midianites, to whom Jethro was
priest, had crossed the Elanitic Gulf, and settled in the southern half
of the peninsula of Sinai (cf. Ex. 3:1). There is nothing improbable in
such a supposition. There are several branches of the Towara Arabs
occupying the southern portion of Arabia, that have sprung from Hedjas
in this way; and even in the most modern times considerable intercourse
was carried on between the eastern side of the gulf and the peninsula,
whilst there was formerly a ferry between *Szytta, Madian,* and
*Nekba.*—The words *“and he sat down* (וַיֵּשֶׁב, i.e., settled) *in the
land of Midian, and sat down by the well,”* are hardly to be understood
as simply meaning that “when he was dwelling in Midian, he sat down one
day by a well” (*Baumg.*), but that immediately upon his arrival in
Midian, where he intended to dwell or stay, he sat down by the well. The
definite article before בְּאֵר points to the well as the only one, or
the principal well in that district. *Knobel* refers to “the well at
*Sherm;”* but at *Sherm el Moye* (i.e., water-bay) or *Sherm el Bir*
(well-bay) there are “several deep wells finished off with stones,”
which are “evidently the work of an early age, and have cost great
labour” (*Burckhardt,* Syr. p. 854); so that the expression *“the* well”
would be quite unsuitable. Moreover there is but a very weak support for
*Knobel’s* attempt to determine the site of Midian, in the
identification of the Μαρανῖται or Μαρανεῖς (of *Strabo* and
*Artemidorus*) with *Madyan.*

**Ex. 2:16ff.** Here Moses secured for himself a hospitable reception
from a priest of Midian, and a home at his house, by doing as Jacob had
formerly done (Gen. 29:10), viz., helping his daughters to water their
father’s sheep, and protecting them against the other shepherds.—On the
form יֹושִׁעָן for יֹושִׁעֵן vid., Gen. 19:19; and for the masculine
suffixes to יְגָרְשׁוּם and צֹאנָם, Gen. 31:9. תִּדְלֶנָה for
תִּדְלֶינָהַ, as in Job 5:12, cf. *Ewald,* § 198*a.*—The flock of this
priest consisted of nothing but צֹאן, i.e., sheep and goats (vid., Ex.
3:1). Even now there are no oxen reared upon the peninsula of Sinai, as
there is not sufficient pasturage or water to be found. For the same
reason there are no horses kept there, but only camels and asses (cf.
*Seetzen,* R. iii. 100; *Wellsted,* R. in Arab. ii. p. 66). In v. 18 the
priest is called *Reguel,* in Ex. 3:1 *Jethro.* This title, “the priest
of Midian,” shows that he was the spiritual head of the branch of the
Midianites located there, but hardly that he was the prince or temporal
head as well, like Melchizedek, as the Targumists have indicated by רבא,
and as *Artapanus* and the poet *Ezekiel* distinctly affirm. The other
shepherds would hardly have treated the daughters of the Emir in the
manner described in v. 17. The name רְעוּאֵל (*Reguel,* friend of God)
indicates that this priest served the old Semitic God *El* (אֵל). This
*Reguel,* who gave his daughter Zipporah to Moses, was unquestionably
the same person as *Jethro* (יִתרֹו) the חֹתֵן of Moses and priest of
Midian (Ex. 3:1). Now, as *Reguel’s* son *Chobab* is called Moses’ חֹתֵן
in Num. 10:29 (cf. Judg. 4:11), the Targumists and others supposed
*Reguel* to be the grandfather of Zipporah, in which case אָב would mean
the grandfather in v. 18, and בַּת the granddaughter in v. 21. This
hypothesis would undoubtedly be admissible, if it were probable on other
grounds. But as a comparison of Num. 10:29 with Ex. 18 does not
necessarily prove that *Chobab* and *Jethro* were the same persons,
whilst Ex. 18:27 seems to lead to the very opposite conclusion, and
חֹתֵן, like the Greek γαμβρός, may be used for both father-in-law and
brother-in-law, it would probably be more correct to regard *Chobab* as
Moses’ brother-in-law, *Reguel* as the proper name of his father-in-law,
and *Jethro,* for which *Jether* (*praestantia*) is substituted in Ex.
4:18, as either a title, or the surname which showed the rank of Reguel
in his tribe, like the Arabic *Imam,* i.e., *praepositus, spec. sacrorum
antistes. Ranke’s* opinion, that *Jethro* and *Chobab* were both of them
sons of Reguel and brothers-in-law of Moses, is obviously untenable, if
only on the ground that according to the analogy of Num. 10:29 the
epithet “son of Reguel” would not be omitted in Ex. 3:1.

**Ex. 2:21–25.** Moses’ Life in Midian.—As Reguel gave a hospitable
welcome to Moses, in consequence of his daughters’ report of the
assistance that he had given them in watering their sheep; it pleased
Moses (וַיֹּואֶל) to dwell with him. The primary meaning of הֹואִיל is
*voluit* (vid., *Ges. thes.*). קִרְאֶן for קְרֶאנָה: like שְׁמַעַן in
Gen. 4:23.—Although Moses received Reguel’s daughter Zipporah as his
wife, probably after a lengthened stay, his life in Midian was still a
banishment and a school of bitter humiliation. He gave expression to
this feeling at the birth of his first son in the name which he gave it,
viz., *Gershom* (גֵּרְשֹׁם, i.e., banishment, from גָּרַשׁ to drive or
thrust away); *“for,”* he said, interpreting the name according to the
sound, *“I have been a stranger* (גֵּר) *in a strange land.”* In a
strange land he was obliged to live, far away from his brethren in
Egypt, and far from his fathers’ land of promise; and in this strange
land the longing for home seems to have been still further increased by
his wife Zipporah, who, to judge from Ex. 4:24ff., neither understood
nor cared for the feelings of his heart. By this he was urged on to
perfect and unconditional submission to the will of his God. To this
feeling of submission and confidence he gave expression at the birth of
his second son, by calling him *Eliezer* (אֱלִיעֶזֶר God is help); for
he said, *“The God of my father* (Abraham or the three patriarchs, cf.
3:6) *is my help, and has delivered me from the sword of Pharaoh”* (Ex.
18:4). The birth of this son is not mentioned in the Hebrew text, but
his name is given in Ex. 18:4, with this explanation.<sup>7</sup> In the
names of his two sons, Moses expressed all that had affected his mind in
the land of Midian. The pride and self-will with which he had offered
himself in Egypt as the deliverer and judge of his oppressed brethren,
had been broken down by the feeling of exile. This feeling, however, had
not passed into despair, but had been purified and raised into firm
confidence in the God of his fathers, who had shown himself as his
helper by delivering him from the sword of Pharaoh. In this state of
mind, not only did “his attachment to his people, and his longing to
rejoin them, instead of cooling, grow stronger and stronger” (*Kurtz*),
but the hope of the fulfilment of the promise given to the fathers was
revived within him, and ripened into the firm confidence of faith.

**Ex. 2:23–25.** Verses 23–25 form the introduction to the next chapter.
The cruel oppression of the Israelites in Egypt continued without
intermission or amelioration. *“In those many days the king of Egypt
died, and the children of Israel sighed by reason of the service”*
(i.e., their hard slave labour). The *“many days”* are the years of
oppression, or the time between the birth of Moses and the birth of his
children in Midian. The king of Egypt who died, was in any case the king
mentioned in v. 15; but whether he was one and the same with the *“new
king”* (Ex. 1:8), or a successor of his, cannot be decided. If the
former were the case, we should have to assume, with *Baumgarten,* that
the death of the king took place not very long after Moses’ flight,
seeing that he was an old man at the time of Moses’ birth, and had a
grown-up daughter. But the greater part of the “many days” would then
fall in his successor’s reign, which is obviously opposed to the meaning
of the words, “It came to pass in those many days, that the king of
Egypt died.” For this reason the other supposition, that the king
mentioned here is a successor of the one mentioned in Ex. 1:8, has far
greater probability. At the same time, all that can be determined from a
comparison of Ex. 7:7 is, that the Egyptian oppression lasted more than
80 years. This allusion to the complaints of the Israelites, in
connection with the notice of the king’s death, seems to imply that they
hoped for some amelioration of their lot from the change of government;
and that when they were disappointed, and groaned the more bitterly in
consequence, they cried to God for help and deliverance. This is evident
from the remark, *“Their cry came up unto God,”* and is stated
distinctly in Deut. 26:7.

**Ex. 2:24, 25.** *“God heard their crying, and remembered His covenant
with the fathers: “and God saw the children of Israel, and God noticed*
(them.” “This seeing and noticing had regard to the innermost nature of
Israel, namely, as the chosen seed of Abraham” (*Baumgarten*). God’s
notice has all the energy of love and pity. *Lyra* has aptly explained
וַיֵּדַע thus: *“ad modum cognoscentis se habuit, ostendendo dilectionem
circa eos;”* and *Luther* has paraphrased it correctly: “He accepted
them.”

