---
title: "Nazarites"
pdf: "nazarites.pdf"
description: "The Nazarites were an ancient order of persons consecrated to God by means of a vow."
tableofcontents: true
template: topic.jade
---

NAZARITE – from [Heb ***nāzîr***—‘consecrated one,’ \< ***nāzar***, ‘to
consecrate’; cf. also ***nāḏar***—‘to vow’; Gk ***nazeiraíos***, plus
various words indicating “holiness” or “devotion.” The basic meaning of
the different Hebrew and Greek terms is that of “one consecrated, a
devotee.”

##### Origin and Nature

The Nazarites were an ancient order of persons consecrated to God by
means of a vow. This order was the Israelite counterpart of the votive
persons commonly found in ancient Near Eastern religions. Precisely when
the institution originated is unknown, but when the regulations
governing the Nazarites were laid down in the time of Moses (Num.
6:1–21) it seems possible that they were intended to normalize a
tradition that was already of some antiquity, and bring it firmly within
the life of the covenant community.

The role of Nazarite was that of a votary, a sacred person who was
consecrated to divine service for a specific period of time as the
result of a vow and as an expression of special commitment to God. The
nature of this relationship was given formal legal expression in Numbers
6, and was distinctive in character on several counts.

A Nazarite could be one whose vow was made for him without his knowledge
or approval, as with Samuel, who was offered to God in a vow made by his
mother (1 S. 1:11). It is conceivable that Hannah herself was a
Nazarite, since she was familiar with the general prescriptions, but the
narrative does not mention her in such a capacity. Another involuntary
Nazarite was Samson (Judges 13:3–5), who was proclaimed a person
consecrated to God according to Nazarite tradition in an annunciation.

But the Nazarite could also enter into a relationship with God in full
awareness of what would be involved. Some scholars have thought of an
“early” Nazarite tradition, in which an individual such as Samson or
Saul was pledged or pledged himself in a lifelong charismatic
dedication, as contrasted with a “late” tradition, represented for them
by the Numbers regulations, where the commitment was of a temporary
nature.

The Samson narratives do not mention the prohibition about contact with
corpses, and Samson had a great deal of such contact in his exploits.
Those who assign an early date to the enactments in Numbers find the
distinction between “early” and “late” Nazarite traditions unsupported
by the text. The nature of the Nazarite vocation was consistently that
of a distinctive, holy person who had dedicated himself to divine
service and in return received certain spiritual endowments.

##### Regulations

Basic to the Nazarite’s status was the vow, which when made voluntarily
was probably marked by a ceremony of dedication that included a
consecrated offering (cf. Nu. 6:2, New King James Version). This marked
the point of separation, which itself had two aspects, one “to the
Lord,” implying a definite spiritual relationship that may not have been
particularly observable in others, while the second separated the
Nazarite from certain contemporary customs and attitudes. He was to
abstain from the fruit of the vine in any form, a prohibition that
worked some hardship in a land where clean water was scarce and
fermented drinks were the normal adult beverage. Yet this regulation
alone made for distinctiveness in a cultural environment where
alcoholism was an extremely serious social problem, and could leave no
doubt as to the status of the Nazarite. It also recaptured the stern
life-style followed by the desert nomads of the wilderness period, and
contrasted it forcibly with the far less rigorous sedentary life in
Canaan, with its attendant moral temptations.

Equally distinctive was the prohibition against shaving or cutting the
hair during the period of the vow (Nu. 6:5). The Nazarite’s life was to
be analogous to that of the unpruned vine (*nāzîr*) of Lev. 25:11; the
vine was deliberately left untended for the first few years of its life
so that thereafter its fruit would be mature. The Nazarite’s entire
body, including the hair, belonged to God, and if the hair remained
untrimmed it would serve as a witness against any who shaved the head in
the service of pagan deities.

The priestly nature of the Nazarite’s witness was indicated by
regulations forbidding consumption of unclean food (Judges 13:7) and
contact with a corpse (Numbers 6:6f), because of its defiling nature.
Such a prohibition also applied to Aaron and his descendants (Lev.
21:1), except that they were excused when the deceased was a close
relative. The Nazarite, like the high priest of Israel, was to be
consecrated to God and serve as an example of a strict, obedient life of
the kind demanded by the Sinai covenant. If the Nazarite became
accidentally defiled by a dead person, he had to shave his hair off and
make an offering to God to remove the defilement. Then if he so desired
he could undertake an entirely fresh vow of consecration and separation.

When the period of a voluntary vow had ended, the Nazarite brought an
offering to the door of the tabernacle and the sacrifice was performed
by the priest. At that time the Nazarite’s hair was shorn and burned,
signifying publicly the termination of the vow (Nu. 6:13–20).

##### Nazarites in Scripture

In the Old Testament the only lifelong Nazarites mentioned were Samson
and Samuel. Whereas the former was especially designated in this way by
an angel from God (Judges 13:7), a commitment that was subsequently
acknowledged by Samson himself (Judges 16:17), Samuel was nowhere
mentioned in the MT as a Nazarite.

In the New Testament John the Baptist was the most outstanding example
of a Nazarite, and may well have begun a fashion that other ascetic
Christians emulated. While Jesus was a Nazarene (that is, from Nazareth,
Mt. 2:23) He was not a Nazarite, and as such He contrasted Himself to
John (Matt. 11:18f). Paul had evidently taken a Nazarite’s vow which he
began to terminate at Cenchrea by cutting off his hair (Acts 18:18), and
which was completed formally in Jerusalem with other Christians under
Nazarite vows (Acts 21:23f).

##### Later Developments

By the New Testament period the Nazarite tradition was probably being
encouraged in some areas of Essene life. According to Eusebius (*HE*
ii.23.3), James the brother of Christ seemed to belong to a Nazarite
group, as did a certain Bannus, tutor of Josephus, who was probably the
Buni mentioned in T.B. *Sanhedrin* 43a as a disciple of Jesus. The vow
taken by the immoral Bernice, the sister-wife of Herod Agrippa II (Acts
25:13), was apparently Nazarite in character (cf. Josephus BJ ii.15.1
[313f]). Josephus also recorded that on his return from Rome Agrippa was
a benefactor to some Nazarites seeking release from their vows (*Ant.*
xix.6.1 [294]). In the Mishnah the burning of the hair was recognized as
an offering to God (*Nazir* iv.7; this entire tractate deals with the
Nazarite vow).

