---
title: "Nebuchadnezzar"
pdf: "nebuchadnezzar.pdf"
description: "King of Babylon (605-562 BC) and conqueror of Jerusalem."
tableOfContents: true
template: topic.jade
---

From International Standard Bible Encyclopedia

**NEBUCHADNEZZAR** neb-ə-kəd-nezʹər, neb-yoo̅-kəd-nezʹər [Heb
*n*<sup>*e*</sup>*ḇûḵaḏre˒ṣṣar*, *n*<sup>*e*</sup>*ḇûḵaḏne˒ṣṣar* \< Akk
*nabû-kudurri-uṣur*—‘Nabu has guarded my boundary-stone’ or ‘May Nabu
protect …’ or ‘… the accession-rights’; Gk *Nabouchodonosor*]. King of
Babylon (605–562 b.c.) and conqueror of Jerusalem.

##### I. Forms of the Name

The form *n*<sup>*e*</sup>*ḇûḵaḏre˒ṣṣar* (and its variants), with an
*r*, occurs thirty-three times in the OT — twenty-nine times in
Jeremiah, four times in Ezekiel. The form
*n*<sup>*e*</sup>*ḇûḵaḏne˒ṣṣar* (and its variants), with an *n*, occurs
fifty-eight times — thirty-two times in Daniel and otherwise in Kings,
Chronicles, Ezra, Nehemiah, Esther, and Jeremiah. On the basis of the
Akkadian, the form with *r* is generally preferred. The theory that the
form with *n* comes from Aramaic is perhaps to be rejected, since the
illustration usually given (Ben/Bar Hadad) has *r* in the Aramaic form.
Another theory, that “Nebuchadnezzar” arises from an Aramaic word that
translates Akk *kudurri*, is specious. The LXX supports the form with
*n* and is followed by the Vulgate; these versions are late, however,
and do not provide evidence contemporary with the prophets. The form
used by Josephus is that of the LXX. Possibly the *n/r* shift is
dialectal, but this explanation is made questionable by occurrences of
both forms in one book, Jeremiah (chs 27–29 only). Since Jeremiah and
Ezekiel are unquestionably from the time of the king, their evidence may
be stronger — but the evidence of Daniel and of Jer. 27–29 is not to be
brushed aside lightly.

##### II. Historical Sketch

Nebuchadrezzar, frequently called “king of Babylon” in the OT, was the
son of Nabopolassar (a usurper of the throne). His sons were Awîl-Marduk
(Evil-merodach; the later spelling *Amēl-Marduk* is orthographic, not
phonetic, as the Hebrew form indicates), Marduk-*šum-uṣur*, and
*Marduk-nadin-aḫi*, and his wife was Amytis, the daughter of Astyages
king of Media. Knowledge about Nebuchadrezzar comes from a number of
sources: about five hundred contracts dated variously to forty-three
years of his reign, about thirty inscriptions, the biblical books
mentioned above, and the authors Berossus, Menander of Ephesus,
Megasthenes, Abydenus, and Alexander Polyhistor, who are known mostly
from citations in Josephus and Eusebius. Most important for chronology,
however, are the tablets published in CCK. Records from the eleventh to
forty-third years of the reign of Nebuchadrezzar are almost entirely
lacking, however, except for fragments of an inscription dated in the
thirty-seventh year.

Nebuchadrezzar II — so designated to distinguish him from Nebuchadrezzar
I (1112–1103) and from the pretenders Nebuchadrezzar III (*Nidintu-Bēl*,
who reigned three months in 522) and Nebuchadrezzar IV (Arakha, who
reigned from Aug. to Nov., 521) — acceded to the throne when his father
died in 605. In Nabopolassar’s nineteenth regnal year (607) in the month
of Siwanu he and the crown prince had led an expedition against mountain
tribes (CCK, pp. 64–67). The father in his twenty-first year (605)
remained in Babylon, probably because of failing health, and the army
under Nebuchadrezzar engaged the Egyptians at Carchemish. The Egyptians
were badly beaten, and Nebuchadrezzar proceeded to conquer *Ḫatti*-land
(Syria and Palestine; CCK, pp. 66–75; cf. Josephus Ant. x.6.1 [84-86]).
On 8 Abu (Aug. 15) Nabopolassar died, and when Nebuchadrezzar received
the news, he hurried back to secure his claim, ascending the throne on 1
Elul (Sept. 7), 605. Following the custom of his predecessors he counted
this his “accession year” (MU.SAG; CCK, pp. 68f); the first year of his
reign commenced when he “took the hands” of the gods Bel and Bel’s son
on 1 Nisanu (Apr. 2, 604; lines 14f). According to lines 13f
Nebuchadrezzar returned to *Ḫatti*-land in his accession year “until the
month of Shabatu” (Feb. 2–Mar. 2, 604) and took “heavy tribute.”

In his first year Nebuchadrezzar again invaded *Ḫatti*-land in Siwanu
(May–June), receiving heavy tribute from “all the kings” and sacking
Ashkelon in Kisliwu (Nov.–Dec.). According to his chronicle he “turned
the city into a mound and heaps of ruins” and returned to Babylon in
Shabatu (Jan. 23–Feb. 20, 603). In his second, third, and fourth years
Nebuchadrezzar conducted campaigns in *Ḫatti*-land. The significance of
these data for biblical studies will be mentioned below.

The campaign in the fourth year (Kisliwu, early Dec., 601) brought a
confrontation with the Egyptian forces. The chronicle reports that they
“inflicted great havoc on each other” (reverse, line 7), and as a result
Nebuchadrezzar spent his fifth year at home rebuilding his army
(reverse, line 8). Jehoiakim had been placed on the throne of Judah by
Pharaoh Neco in 608. 2 K. 24:1 states: “Nebuchadnezzar … came up, and
Jehoiakim became his servant three years; then he turned and rebelled
against him.” It is reasonable to assume that this revolt took place
soon after the battle with Egypt (cf. Josephus Ant. x.6.2 [88]). In his
sixth year Nebuchadrezzar was in *Ḫatti*-land from Kisliwu (Nov.–Dec.,
599) until Addaru (Feb.–Mar., 598), during which time he “took much
plunder from the Arabs” (reverse, line 10; cf. Jer. 49:28).

In the seventh year in the month of Kisliwu (Dec., 598–Jan., 597) the
king marched his troops to *Ḫatti*-land and “encamped against the city
of Judah.” After a siege of three months he took the city and captured
the king (cf. 2 K. 24:10–16). He dated this event “the second day of
Addaru,” i.e., Mar. 15/16, 597 (not 598, as sometimes given; the author
of 2 Kings, using a Tishri-Tishri year, calculated that this was
Nebuchadrezzar’s eighth regnal year — the first would have commenced in
Tishri, 605, the beginning of Jehoiakim’s fourth regnal year).
Nebuchadrezzar put on the throne of Judah “a king of his heart,” namely,
the puppet Zedekiah (v 17). Jehoiachin, who had succeeded his father
Jehoiakim, was taken to Babylon (v 12; 2 Ch. 36:10; Ezk. 40:1).

In his ninth year the Babylonian king seems to have had a confrontation
with Akkad and Elam (reverse, lines 16–20, broken text). In the tenth
year (595–594) and again in the eleventh he put down a rebellion in
Akkad and also had reason to march into *Ḫatti*-land (reverse, lines
21–25). The Babylonian Chronicles break off at this point and do not
resume until the third year of Neriglissar, 556. Nebuchadrezzar was
succeeded by his son Awîl-Marduk (Evil-merodach) in early October, 562.
This date is deduced from two bits of evidence: the last date formula
based on the reign of Nebuchadrezzar, 26 Ululu of his forty-third year,
which is found on a tablet from Uruk (modern Warka, biblical Erech); and
the first date formula based on the reign of Awîl-Marduk, 26 Ululu of
his accession year, found on a tablet perhaps from Sippar.
Nebuchadrezzar could not have died much earlier than the latter date,
i.e., Oct. 8, 562 (cf. R. A. Parker and W. H. Dubberstein, *Babylonian
Chronology* [2nd ed 1956], p. 12).

Between Nebuchadrezzar’s eleventh and forty-third years a number of
events must be placed. According to Josephus there was a thirteen-year
siege of Tyre beginning in Nebuchadrezzar’s seventh year (CAp. i.21
[156, 159], an account probably from Menander of Ephesus; cf. Ezk.
29:18). A text published in 1882 by T. G. Pinches (*Transactions of the
Society of Biblical Archaeology*, 7 [1882], 210–225) records
Nebuchadrezzar’s march in the thirty-seventh year of his reign against
Amasis king of Egypt. According to Pinches this was an expedition to
quell the revolt of Amasis (Ahmoses), who had been placed on the
Egyptian throne as a Babylonian puppet after the defeat of Apries
(Hophra) in 572. The many building projects in Babylon, some of which
have left inscriptions, must be placed in this period (cf. Dnl. 4:30;
*see* Babylon IV). And, of course, the siege and destruction of
Jerusalem occurred in this period (*see* Jerusalem III.E).

##### III. Biblical Significance

Since Nebuchadrezzar is named about ninety times in the OT, his
importance is to be carefully evaluated. It falls biblically into two
categories, the historical and the apocalyptic.

**A. Historical**Nebuchadrezzar was the king who brought the Davidic
dynasty to an end. He besieged Jerusalem, captured it, and finally
destroyed it completely. He carried its last legitimate king
(Jehoiachin) captive to Babylon, recognizing his royal status by
providing daily rations and thus preserving his seed.

According to Dnl. 1:1–6 the Babylonian king came to Jerusalem in the
third year of Jehoiakim (*see* Daniel, Book of VIII.B), besieged it, and
carried off not only treasures but also members of the royal family and
nobility, among whom was Daniel. It is not known what chronological
system Daniel used. According to that used in 2 Kings Jehoiakim’s first
regnal year began in Tishri (Sept. 10), 608, and he reigned eleven years
(23:36), or until 597. His third year, according to this reckoning,
would have begun in Tishri, 606, and extended to Tishri, 605. It is
clear that Nebuchadrezzar was still crown prince until he ascended the
throne in September, 605, and it is hardly likely that he would have
taken time to collect people and goods from Jerusalem when he was
rushing back to Babylon to secure his throne. More reasonable, it seems,
is the view that the “siege” of Jerusalem to which Daniel refers took
place in 604, when the Babylonian king destroyed Ashkelon and made
Jehoiakim his tributary (2 K. 24:1; cf. Jer. 47:5). Jehoiakim revolted
in the third year, which coincides with the terrible beating that the
Babylonians took at the hands of Egypt in Nebuchadrezzar’s fourth year
(Josephus Ant. x.6.2 [88]).

The siege to which the author of 2 Kings referred (24:10) occurred in
the eighth year of Nebuchadrezzar’s reign (v 12). As pointed out above,
Nebuchadrezzar’s eighth regnal year by his reckoning did not begin until
1 Nisan (Apr. 13) 597, whereas according to the Tishri-Tishri year it
had already begun the preceding October, which was also the start of
Jehoiakim’s eleventh year. Jehoiakim died and was succeeded by his son
Jehoiachin (Coniah), who reigned but three months (v 8; 2 Ch. 36:9).
According to the Babylonian Chronicle, Jerusalem was taken on 2 Adar
(Mar. 16); hence Jehoiachin’s accession to the throne can be calculated
as at the end of 598 (specifically Dec. 9, 598, if the “three months and
ten days” of 2 Ch. 36:9 are taken literally). Mattaniah, son of Josiah
and uncle of Jehoiachin, was put on the throne as a puppet and given the
throne-name of Zedekiah (2 K. 24:17). Zedekiah’s first regnal year was
counted from 1 Tishri (Oct. 9) 597.

Because of Zedekiah’s revolt against Babylon, in the ninth year of his
reign, on the tenth day of the tenth month (Jan. 15), 588, the armies of
Nebuchadrezzar laid siege to Jerusalem (2 K. 25:1; Jer. 52:4; Ezk.
24:1f). The Egyptians apparently attempted to come to the aid of Judah
(cf. Jer. 37:4f). Ezekiel’s prophecy against Pharaoh (Ezk. 29:1ff, dated
Jan. 7, 587) and Jeremiah’s attempt to go to the land of Benjamin (Jer.
37:11f) are to be related to this event. On 9 Tammuz (July 18) 586 there
was severe famine in Jerusalem (2 K. 25:3; Jer. 39:2). A breach was made
in the walls; the Judean king and his warriors attempted to flee but
were overtaken “in the plains of Jericho” (2 K. 25:5). Zedekiah was
taken prisoner to Riblah (near Hamath on the Orontes), where the
Babylonian king had his headquarters, and punishment was meted out (vv
6f; Jer. 39:4–8; 52:6–11). On 7 Ab (Aug. 12; cf. 2 K. 25:8) or 10 Ab
(Aug. 15; cf. Jer. 52:12) in the nineteenth year of Nebuchadrezzar
Jerusalem was burned, the walls were destroyed, and many of the people
were taken captive (Jer. 52:13ff). Gedaliah was appointed governor with
his headquarters at Mizpeh (2 K. 25:22f). He was killed by what appears
to have been some of the pro-Egypt Judeans (v 25; Jer. 41:2; cf.
40:1–43:13). Jehoiachin, the last surviving king of the Davidic dynasty,
was released from prison on 27 Adar (Apr. 2) 561, “in the year that he
[Evil-merodach] began to reign” (i.e., in his accession year; cf. 2 K.
25:27–30; Jer. 52:31 dates the release two days earlier).

According to Dnl. 2:1 Nebuchadrezzar’s dreams occurred in his second
regnal year. He built a colossal image of gold and set it up on the
plain of Dura (3:1); Daniel’s companions refused to worship it. The
king’s tree dream was fulfilled by a curious disease (sometimes
identified as lycanthropy, but more accurately boanthropy) that lasted
for “seven times,” generally interpreted to mean seven years. Whether
these data are to be taken as a record of historical events or as
figures used in an apocalyptic prophecy is debatable. The disease in
particular has led some scholars to conclude that the author has
mistakenly identified Nabonidus, Babylon’s last king and often
characterized as insane, with Nebuchadrezzar.

**B. Apocalyptic**Beyond question, Daniel is an apocalyptic work, for
its stated purpose is to reveal what is to take place “in the latter
days” (10:14; cf. 2:45). A characteristic of apocalypses is the use of
historical and geographical names symbolically to set forth a
revelation. Thus “Babylon” in Rev. 17–18 is generally interpreted to
mean “Rome,” but more likely it was meant to symbolize any tyrannical
and satanic anti-God system. “Nebuchadrezzar” can be similarly
interpreted as the splendid head of a great world kingdom that was given
several opportunities to recognize the kingdom of God (and appeared to
do so — but repeatedly, indicating a lack of true repentance; cf. Dnl.
2:29; 4:34–37 [MT 31–34]; likewise Darius, 6:26–28 [MT 27–29]). This
interpretation is not a rejection of the historicity of Daniel; it is
rather a recognition that the author’s dreams and visions were God-given
revelations, in the form of apocalyptic, of what would take place
concerning the people of God, and in particular the establishment of the
kingdom of God (cf. W. S. LaSor, D. A. Hubbard, and F. W. Bush, *OT
Survey* [1982], ch 51). In the days of the great king Nebuchadrezzar,
who is portrayed as the head of gold (2:38), was foretold the end of
man-made governments and the advent of the kingdom that God will
establish and that will never be destroyed (v 44).

***Bibliography.***—D. J. Wiseman, CCK; *Assyria and Babylonia, ca
1200–1000b.c.* (1965), pp. 14–17; Josephus Ant. x.6.1–11.1 (84–228); CAp
i.19–21 (131–160).

W. S. LaSOR

