---
title: Nero
template: lesson.jade
---


<sup>Nero</sup>

From International Standard Bible Encyclopedia

**Nero**nēʹrō [Gk *Nerōn*]. The fifth Roman emperor, who was born at
Antium in a.d. 37, began to reign October, 54, and died June 9, 68.

I. Parentage and Early Training
===============================

Nero’s father was Cnaeus Domitius Ahenobarbus (“brazen beard”), a man
from an illustrious family but of vicious life. His mother Agrippina,
daughter of Germanicus and the older Agrippina, was a sister of the
emperor Caligula. Through her mother she was the great-granddaughter of
the emperor Augustus, and this gave her son a strong claim to the
throne.

Agrippina schemed to make Nero’s imperial claim a reality. He was
betrothed and later married to Octavia, daughter of Claudius, who
succeeded his nephew Caligula as emperor. After the murder of Claudius’s
wife, Agrippina (by then widowed) wed Claudius, the law having been
changed to allow her marriage to her father’s brother. She persuaded
Claudius to adopt Nero as his son, and the young man, formerly Lucius
Domitius Ahenobarbus, became Nero Claudius Caesar Germanicus. Claudius
agreed to make a will in favor of Nero, but when he began to regret
disinheriting his own son Britannicus, Agrippina poisoned Claudius.
Immediately Nero was proclaimed emperor by the praetorian prefect
Burrus; the praetorian guard had been richly bribed. The senate weakly
acknowledged the new emperor.

II. Reign
=========

**A. “Quinquennium Neronis”**The first five years (*quinquennium*) of
Nero’s reign were characterized by good government at home and in the
provinces and by the emperor’s popularity with the senate and people.
Agrippina’s influence over her son was lessened through the efforts of
Burrus and Seneca the philosopher, who was Nero’s tutor. One of her
efforts to retain her power — a threat to present Britannicus as the
rightful heir to the throne — resulted in Nero’s having Britannicus
poisoned and eventually banishing Agrippina from the palace. Seneca and
Burrus brought about financial, social, and legislative reforms but
allowed Nero to indulge in low pleasures and excesses and to surround
himself with dissolute companions — habits that the emperor never
abandoned.

![](data:image/png;base64,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)

Bust of the young Nero (Corinth Excavations, American School of
Classical Studies; I. Ioannido and L. Bartziotou, photographers)

**B. Poppaea Sabina and Tigellinus**The wife of Otho, one of Nero’s
notorious companions, was Poppaea Sabina, a woman as ambitious as she
was unprincipled. She was endowed, according to Tacitus, with every gift
of nature except an “honorable mind.” Beginning in 58 she used her
husband as a tool to become Nero’s consort. Under her influence Nero
shook off all restraints, turned a deaf ear to his best advisers, and
plunged deeper into immorality and crime. She allowed, if not persuaded,
Nero to give Otho a commission in a distant province (Lusitania). With
Nero’s connivance she plotted Agrippina’s death. Agrippina was induced
to board a boat that had been carefully constructed to sink, but she
saved herself by swimming ashore. She was subsequently killed on a
pretext, however, and Nero claimed that she had committed suicide
(Suetonius xxxiv; TacitusAnn cxli-cxlviii).

Having openly become Nero’s mistress, Poppaea continued to eliminate her
rivals. When Burrus died in a.d. 62, she forced Seneca to withdraw from
the court. She had Nero divorce Octavia because of her barrenness and
then banish her to the island of Pandateria on a false charge of
adultery. Octavia was executed in 62 and her head brought to Poppaea. In
65 Poppaea herself died during pregnancy when Nero in a fit of rage
cruelly kicked her.

After his extravagance had exhausted the well-filled treasury left by
Claudius, Nero began to confiscate the estates of rich nobles against
whom the new praetorian prefect Tigellinus could contrive the slightest
charge. Even this tactic did not prevent a financial crisis — the
beginning of the bankruptcy of the Roman empire. Worst of all, the gold
and silver coinage was depreciated, and the senate was deprived of the
right of copper coinage.

**C. Great Fire**The situation was immeasurably worsened by the great
fire that began July 18, 64, in the Circus Maximus and that, with the
aid of a high wind, consumed street after street of poorly built wooden
houses. When after six days it had almost died down, another
conflagration started in a different part of the city. Of the fourteen
city regions, evidently seven were destroyed totally and four partially.
Nero hurried back to Rome from Antium and superintended in person the
work of the fire brigades, often exposing himself to danger. He took
many of the homeless into his own gardens. Despite his efforts, numerous
rumors accused him of arson (cf. Suetonius xxviii; TacitusAnn xv.38ff).
No serious modern historian, however, charges him with the crime.

**D. Persecution of Christians**Since such public calamities were
generally attributed to the wrath of the gods, everything was done to
appease the offended deity. Tacitus recounted Nero’s scheme to avert
suspicion from himself. “He put forward as guilty [*subdidit reos*], and
afflicted with the most exquisite punishments, those who were hated for
their abominations [*flagitia*] and called ‘Christians’ by the populace.
Christus, from whom the name was derived, was punished by the procurator
Pontius Pilate in the reign of Tiberius. The noxious form of religion
[*exitiabilis superstitio*], checked for a time, broke out again not
only in Judea its original home, but also throughout the city [Rome],
where all the abominations meet and find devotees. Therefore first of
all those who confessed [i.e., to being Christians] were arrested, and
then as a result of their information a large number were implicated
[reading *coniuncti*, not *convicti*], not so much on the charge of
incendiarism as for hatred of the human race. They died by methods of
mockery; some were covered with the skins of wild beasts and then torn
by dogs, some were crucified, some were burned as torches to light at
night … . Whence [after scenes of extreme cruelty] commiseration was
stirred for them, although guilty of deserving the worse penalties, for
men felt that their destruction was not on account of the public welfare
but to gratify the cruelty of one [Nero]” (Ann. xv. 44).

Such is the earliest account of the first gentile persecution (as well
as the first gentile record of the crucifixion of Jesus). Tacitus
clearly implied that the Christians were innocent (*subdidit reos*) and
that Nero used them simply as scapegoats. Some regard the conclusion of
the paragraph as a contradiction of this — “though guilty and deserving
the severest punishment” (*adversus sontes et novissima exempla
meritos*). But Tacitus meant by *sontes* that the Christians were
“guilty” from the point of view of the populace and that from his own
standpoint, too, they merited extreme punishment, but not for arson.
*Fatebantur* does not mean that they confessed to incendiarism, but to
being Christians; *qui fatebantur* means that some boldly confessed, but
others tried to conceal or perhaps even denied their faith.

**E. Conspiracy of Piso**The tyranny of Tigellinus and his confiscations
to meet Nero’s expenses caused the nobles deep discontent, which
culminated in the famous conspiracy of 64 headed by C. Calpurnius Piso.
The plot was betrayed and an inquisition followed in which perished
Seneca the philosopher, Lucan the poet, Lucan’s mother, and later
Annaeus Mela the brother of Seneca and father of Lucan (TacitusAnn
xvi.21f).

**F. Visit to Greece**Having taken care of every suspected person, Nero
abandoned the government in Rome to a freedman, Helius, and made a long
visit to Greece (a.d. 66–68). There he took part in muscial contests and
games; he won prizes from the obsequious Greeks, in return for which he
bestowed on them the “freedom” of their province.

**G. Death**In 66 began the revolt in Judea that would end in the
destruction of Jerusalem, and in 68 the revolt of Vindex, governor of
Lugdunum (Lyons) in Gaul, was put down. Shortly afterward came the fatal
rebellion of Galba, governor of Hither Spain, who declared himself
*legatus* of the senate and Roman people. Helius persuaded Nero to
return to Rome. The emperor confiscated Galba’s property and could have
crushed him, but the doubts, fears, and distractions that overwhelmed
him greatly helped Galba’s cause. Nero lost the support of the
praetorian guard that made him emperor. He committed suicide, bringing
to an end the line of Julius Caesar.

III. “Nero Redivivus”
=====================

A freedman, two old nurses, and his cast-off concubine Acte cared
affectionately for Nero’s remains, and for a long time flowers were
strewn on his grave (Suetonius lvii). Soon the strange belief arose that
Nero had not really died but was living somewhere in retirement, perhaps
in Parthia, and would return shortly to bring great calamity upon his
enemies or the world (Suetonius lviii).

Some Jews amalgamated this belief with their concept of the antichrist.
AscIsa 4 (1st cent a.d.) clearly identifies the antichrist with Nero;
the idea repeatedly occurs in both Jewish and Christian sections of the
Sibylline Oracles (3:66ff; 4:117f; 5:100f, 136f, 216f).

How far the Christians regarded Nero as the historical personage of the
antichrist is disputed. It would be natural if they had been inflenced
by contemporary thought about the revival of Nero. W. Bousset (*Die
Offenbarung Johannis* [1906], inloc) regarded the beast of Rev. 13 as
Rome and the smitten head “whose mortal wound was healed” as Nero; some
scholars think that Rev. 17:10f refers to Nero. Such passages in
Revelation may refer to the spirit of Nero but certainly not to Nero
himself. Some scholars have applied the number 666 in 13:8 to Nero, but
it suits many other wicked rulers as well (cf. Farrar, ch 28, 5). (*See*
Number VI.)

IV. Nero and Christianity
=========================

**A. Nero and the New Testament** Although the name Nero does not occur
in the NT, he must have been the Caesar to whom Paul appealed (Acts
25:11) and at whose tribunal Paul was tried after his first
imprisonment. Nero probably heard Paul’s case in person, for he showed
much interest in provincial cases. It was during the earlier “golden
quinquennium” of Nero’s reign that Paul addressed his Epistle to the
Christians at Rome. Some have argued that Paul was probably martyred
near Rome in the last year of Nero’s reign (a.d. 68), but it is much
more probable that Paul died in the first Neronian persecution of 64.

The NT never states that Peter visited Rome. The belief in such a visit
arose later from tradition (cf. Clement of Rome, Ignatius, Papias, and
later Tertullian, Clement of Alexandria, and the *Liber Pontificalis*
[catalog of popes]). Although there is no reliable evidence that Peter
was bishop of Rome, and while it is certain that if he went to Rome it
was for brief period, it is highly probable that he visited the city in
old age and was martyred there under Nero.

**B. Neronian Policy and Christianity**Before Nero, the Roman government
had been on friendly terms with Christianity, for it was not prominent
enough to disturb society greatly and was probably confused with
Judaism, a licensed religion (Tertullian Apol 21). Paul urged the
Christians of the capital to “be subject to the governing authorities”
as “instituted by God” (Rom. 13:1f). His high estimation of the Roman
government as a power operating for the good of society was probably
enhanced by his own experiences before his final imprisonment. By that
time the difference between Christianity and Judaism had become apparent
to the Roman authorities, perhaps because of the growing hostility of
the Jews, or perhaps because of the alarming progress of Christianity,
and policy had begun to change for the worse.

According to one view, the Neronian persecution was a unique attempt to
satisfy the revenge of the mob and was confined to Rome. Christians were
put forward as arsonists to remove suspicion from Nero. They were
persecuted on account of false charges of Thyestean feasts, Oedipal
incest, and nightly orgies; their withdrawal from pagan society and
their exclusive manners caused the charge of “hatred of the human race.”
The evidence of Tacitus seems to support this view.

The preferable view, however, represented by Ramsay (CRE, ch 11) and E.
G. Hardy (*Studies in Roman History,* ch 4), is that Christianity was
permanently proscribed as a result of Nero’s persecutions. In this view,
the accounts of Tacitus and Suetonius are reconcilable; Tacitus gave the
initial step, and Suetonius’s inclusion of the persecution of Christians
in a list of seemingly permanent police regulations (*Nero* xvi)
indicates the outcome — an established policy of persecution. Ramsay
maintained that Christians had to be tried and their crimes proved
before they were executed, but Hardy argued that henceforth the Name
itself was proscribed.

There is no reason to suppose that the Neronian persecution of 64
extended throughout the empire. The authorities for a general Neronian
persecution and formal Neronian laws against Christianity are late. But
the emperor’s example in Rome would have greatly influenced the
provinces; the persecutions established a precedent of great importance
in the imperial policy toward Christianity.

***Bibliography.***—CAH, X, ch 21; L. H. Canfield, *Early Persecutions
of the Christians* (1913); CRE; Eusebius HE ii.25; F. W. Farrar, *Early
Days of Christianity* (1882); E.R. Goodenough, *Church in the Roman
Empire* (1931), ch 12; H. M. Gwatkin, *Early Church History,* I (1909);
E. G. Hardy, *Christianity and the Roman Government* (1925); B. W.
Henderson, *Life and Principate of the Emperor Nero* (1903).

S. Angus  
A. M. Renwick

