---
title: "Passover"
pdf: "passover.pdf"
description: "Notes on the Jewish ritual that was the Lord's Supper."
template: topic.jade
---


**Passover 8**

Passover, and the Plague of the Firstborn

Exodus 10 to 30

The Structure of the Passage

In the final verses of Exodus 10, Pharaoh angrily demands that Moses and
Aaron leave his presence, threatening that to do so again will mean
their death (v. 28). Moses tells Pharaoh that he is right, that he will
never see his face again (v. 29). And then, in the 4th verse of chapter
11 Moses seems to appear again before Pharaoh, in contradiction to
Pharaoh’s order and to Moses’ retort. The solution to this apparent
discrepancy is to observe the way this text (as well as others in
Exodus) is structured.

Several times the narrative of events is interrupted by explanatory
statements, which serve to explain the “turn of events” which is
described in the narrative. In chapter 11, verses 1‑3 and 9‑10 are
parenthetical explanations. The statements which are quoted have been
made previous to the event, but are interspersed to explain why things
are happening as described. Thus, Moses has not left Pharaoh’s presence
at the end of chapter 10 and returned again to make his statement in
verses 4‑8 of chapter 11. Instead, verses 4‑8 are Moses’ final retort to
Pharaoh, made immediately after his demand that Moses leave. Verses 1‑3
are cited before the announcement of Moses to Pharaoh that the firstborn
of Egypt will be slain. This explains how Moses knew that this was the
final plague, and why Pharaoh will nonetheless reject the warning. It
also informs us that Moses had nothing to say to Pharaoh, but that which
God had commanded him to speak. Verses 9 and 10 are also a parenthetical
explanation of why Pharaoh stubbornly refused to heed the warning of the
plagues.

In chapters 12 and 13 there is constant alternation between (first) the
instructions God gave Moses, and these same instructions as Moses
conveyed them to the people. There is not a great concern for a smooth
flow chronologically as there is for laying, as it were, a historical
and theological foundation for the ordinance of the Passover. Great
effort is taken here to establish the fact that the Passover is based
upon Israel’s experience in time and space, and upon the direct
revelation of God, made to and through Moses. The purpose of this
revelation thus dictates its form. Since the purpose is not merely a
chronological review of history, chronological smoothness is set aside
in deference to theological explanation.

Let us remember that when we come to the Passover celebration and the
plague of the firstborn, we are now dealing with the tenth and
concluding plague which God has brought upon Pharaoh and the Egyptians.
Thus, this plague is the capstone, as it were, of the plagues. It is the
final blow of the ten plagues (there is yet to be the drowning of the
Egyptian army) which will compel Pharaoh to release the Israelites.

The Plague of the Firstborn and the First Passover (Exodus 11:4‑8;
12:1‑13, 21‑23, 29‑30)

The tenth and final plague is described in several phases. The first is
the pronouncement to Pharaoh by Moses that this plague is about to come
upon all of Egypt. The second is the instructions given to the
Israelites regarding the Passover, which is God’s means of protecting
His people from the plague. Finally, there is a brief account given of
the plague itself, just as God had said through Moses.

**Moses’ pronouncement to Pharaoh: the coming of the final plague**
(Exodus 11:4‑8). As I understand the sequence of events in chapters 10
and 11, Pharaoh had just demanded that Moses leave his presence, and
warned that to return would mean death (10:28). Verses 1‑3 of chapter 11
inform us of a revelation God had given Moses sometime before, in which
the details of the final plague had been outlined. In verses 4‑8, Moses
declared the essence of this revelation to Pharaoh, as it related to
him. At midnight, God would go throughout Egypt, slaying the firstborn,
from Pharaoh’s own son, to the firstborn son of the lowest slave. No
grief will have ever been greater for the Egyptians, and yet not the
least evil would fall upon the Israelites. After this blow, Pharaoh’s
own officials (who must have been standing there in Pharaoh’s court
during this confrontation) would come to Moses, begging him to leave,
with the Israelites. Hot with anger, Moses then left the presence of
Pharaoh.

**Moses’ pronouncement to Israel: instructions regarding the Passover**
(Exodus 12:1‑13, 21‑23). Chapter 12 can be divided into four major
sections. (1) Verses 1‑20 contain the revelation which God had given to
Moses and Aaron. (2) Verses 21‑30, the revelation which Moses conveyed
to the Israelites. (3) Verses 31‑42 give a historical overview of the
exodus, from the command to leave issued by Pharaoh to an account of the
departure, showing that God’s promises had been carried out in accord
with His schedule—to the very day. (4) Verses 43‑51 conclude with
further instructions for the Israelites regarding the celebration of the
Passover in the future, especially focusing on the participation of
foreigners.

Since we will not attempt to cover all the material contained in chapter
12 in this message, I want to point out that the structure of the
chapter links the instructions given by God to Moses (verses 1‑20) and
the instructions from God spoken by Moses (verses 21‑30). God would have
Israelites (and the reader of New Testament times as well) know that the
institution of the Passover was done in accordance with direct divine
revelation. This was not a feast which Israel devised on her own, but
one which God designed and very carefully prescribed.

The instructions for the celebrations of the first Passover were
specific, and dealt with several aspects of the feast. We will briefly
review these:

**(1) The time of the Passover meal**. A new religious calendar was
given to the nation at this time. Since the Passover was the
commencement of a new life, the month (of Abib, cf. 13:4) was to be
viewed, from this time forward, as the first month of the year (Exod.
12:1‑2). The Passover lamb was to be purchased or selected on the 10th
day of the month, and slaughtered at twilight on the evening of the
14th.

**(2) The Passover lamb (Exodus 12:3‑8, 21‑23)**. The Passover animal
was to be a male yearling, either a goat or a sheep (12:5). There was to
be one sacrificial animal per household, unless the family was too small
to consume one. Under such circumstances, two families could share one
(12:4). There was to be provision of enough meat for each person to be
adequately supplied. The blood of the animal was to be put on the sides
and tops of the door frames where the animal was to be eaten (12:7).
This blood was to serve as a sign, which would protect the Israelites
from the death angel (12:13, 23).

**(3) The Passover meal**. The Passover meal was largely provided by the
Passover sacrifice. The animal was to be roasted whole over the fire,
not boiled or eaten raw. Each household was to eat the meal inside the
door on which the animal’s blood had been placed. The meat was eaten
along with bitter herbs and unleavened bread (12:8). Surplus food was
not to be kept overnight, but was to be burned (12:10). There would be
no “leftovers” for dinner because they would be long gone before another
meal could be eaten. This is why the meal was to be eaten with an
atmosphere of readiness and anticipation. They were to eat the meal in
the same way we would eat in an airport restaurant, knowing that the
departure of our flight was about to be announced. In our day, we would
have our coats on and our briefcase in hand. In that day, they were to
have their cloak tucked in (so they could hurry without tripping over
it), their sandals on their feet, and their staff in hand (12:11).

**(4) The participants of the Passover**. The Passover was a corporate
celebration in that all Israel observed the meal, just as Moses had
instructed them (12:28, 50). On the other hand, the meal was a family
matter. Each family was responsible for its own sacrificial animal, its
own act of placing the blood on the door frame, and its own celebration
of the meal. There is no specific mention of any Egyptians celebrating
the first Passover, although this is possible, even likely. This
possibility is enhanced by the report that some Egyptians had taken heed
of previous warnings (9:18‑21). Also, in the instructions God gave
concerning the future observance of Passover, foreigners who placed
themselves under the Abrahamic Covenant (as signified by circumcision)
were allowed to participate, with no distinctions made between them and
(other) Israelites (12:43‑49). Those who did not refrain from eating
leavened bread were to be banned from the congregation of Israel,
whether or not he was a native Israelite (cf. 12:19).

**The account of the Passover plague** (Exodus 12:29‑30). There is
absolutely no sensationalism here, but only the most cursory account of
the fulfillment of the Word of the Lord, spoken through Moses. At
midnight, the firstborn of the Egyptians were slain, from the king of
Egypt to its cattle, from the firstborn of the Pharaoh to that of the
prisoner. The weeping and wailing that night was not like anything ever
heard in the land before. At the same time, none of Israel’s firstborn,
whether man or beast, was smitten. God’s promises, for pleasure or pain,
of prosperity or peril, are certain. There is no need to elaborate
further.

The Passover and Related Ceremonial Observances

The initial Passover meal was the first of endless annual celebrations
(12:14, 17, 24; 13:10). The instructions concerning the Passover
celebration alternate between the present and the future. What Israel
did on that first Passover night was a prototype for all future Passover
observances. We shall therefore now consider the future implications of
the first Passover celebration, as outlined in our text.

**(1) The redemption of the firstborn** (Exod. 13:1‑2, 11‑16). The
firstborn of all the Egyptians were smitten, while those of the
Israelites were spared. We must acknowledge that God had the right (as
He still does) to smite the firstborn of Egypt. Indeed, He had the right
to smite the firstborn of Israel as well, and this would have happened
apart from the provision of the Passover lamb and the shedding of its
blood. God therefore struck down the Egyptian firstborn while He spared
the Israelite firstborn. Because the sparing of the Israelite firstborn
was not a matter of merit, but of grace, God owned them. Since He had
spared their lives, He possessed them. The rite of redeeming the
firstborn was a constant reminder to the Israelites of all subsequent
generations that the firstborn belonged to God, and that this was due to
the sparing of the firstborn at the Exodus. Thus, every time the first
boy was born to an Israelite family, the parents were reminded of their
“roots” and the reason for their blessing, and every child was retold
the story of the exodus.

**(2) The Feast of Unleavened Bread** (Exod. 12:14‑20; 13:3‑10). The
first Passover meal was to consist of the roasted sacrificial animal,
bitter herbs, and unleavened bread (12:8). The hasty departure of the
Israelites did not afford the time required to bake leavened bread
(12:34, 39). The Passover celebration was to commence the Feast of
Unleavened Bread. On the first day of the feast, all presence of yeast
is to be removed from the house. On this first and last of the seven
days, a sacred assembly is held (12:16). On these (two) days, no work
was to be done, other than cooking. For the entire seven days, no
leavened bread was to be eaten. The entire week of celebration was to
serve as a reminder to Israel of the day on which God brought them out
of Egypt.

The Purposes of Passover Celebrations (Exodus 12:21‑27, 43‑49)

Like the Feast of Unleavened Bread and the redemption of the firstborn,
the Passover was to become a permanent part of Israel’s religious
liturgy (cf. 12:24‑25). There were several purposes for the Passover
celebration, some of which were to be understood at a later time. We
will briefly survey the principle purposes of the Passover.

**(1) The Passover was a memorial of the deliverance of Israel,
accomplished by the mighty power of God:**“This observance will be for
you like a sign on your hand and a reminder on your forehead that the
Law of the Lord is to be on your lips. For the Lord brought you out of
Egypt with his mighty hand” (Exod. 13:9; cf. 13:14, 16; 3:20).

**(2) The Passover and its related celebrations, the Feast of Unleavened
Bread and the redemption of the firstborn, were intended to serve as a
means of instruction for the future generations of Israel** (Exod.
12:26‑27; 13:8, 14‑16). God directed that the meaning of the celebration
was to be explained to the children (13:8). Also, when a child asks the
meaning of a celebration, the parent is to teach its significance
(12:26-27; 13:14). God therefore designed these celebrations as
occasions for instruction. Thus the story of the Exodus was to be
retold, and its meaning reinforced. The “bitter herbs” (12:8) would
certainly help the children gain some sensory stimulation in this
educational endeavor.

**(3) The Passover celebrations was a means of incorporating or
excluding the Gentiles in the covenant of God to Abraham** (Exod. 12:38,
43-49). Those who ate anything leavened during the week of the Feast of
Unleavened Bread were to be excluded from the community of Israel,
whether this person was an Israelite or a foreigner (12:19). No
uncircumcised person could partake of the Passover, but by receiving
circumcision—that is, by identifying oneself with the Abrahamic
Covenant—even a foreigner could partake of Passover, and with no
distinctions between this individual and an Israelite. Thus,
circumcision enabled one to participate fully in the Passover
celebration. Passover thus was a kind of dividing line between a true
believer and an outsider. Since a number of foreigners accompanied the
Israelites out of Egypt (12:38), this was a necessary distinction.

**(4) The Passover Lamb was a model, a prototype (a type) of the
Messiah, the “Lamb of God” through whom God would bring redemption to
both Israel and the Gentiles** (Exod. 12:5‑7, 46‑47). This was likely
not immediately perceived, but there are several similarities between
the Passover lamb and the Lamb of God, the Lord Jesus Christ. The
sacrificial lamb was to be without defect (Exod. 12:5), just as the Lord
Jesus was without blemish (1 Peter 1:19). It was the shed blood of the
lamb which saved Israel’s firstborn from the plague (Exod. 12:12‑13,
22‑23), just as it is the shed blood of the Lamb of God which saves men
from the judgment of God (1 Peter 1:18‑19; Rev. 5:9). As there was to be
no bone broken of the Passover lamb (Exod. 12:46), so no bone of our
Lord was broken (John 19:32‑36). Thus, the Old Testament prophet,
Isaiah, could speak of Israel’s Savior as a lamb:

We all, like sheep, have gone astray, each of us has turned to his own
way; and the Lord has laid on him the iniquity of us all. He was
oppressed and afflicted, yet he did not open his mouth; he was led like
a lamb to the slaughter, and as a sheep before her shearers is silent,
so he did not open his mouth (Isa. 53:6‑7).

The Passover in the New Testament (John 1:29, 36; Luke 22:1‑23; 1 Cor.
5:1‑8; Rev. 5:6‑14)

John the Baptist could thus identify and introduce our Lord as Israel’s
Messiah by the words, “Look, the Lamb of God, who takes away the sin of
the world!” (John 1:29).

The Passover meal was very naturally transformed into the Eucharist, the
Lord’s Table. Thus, in the gospel accounts, we find the death of our
Savior corresponding with the sacrifice of the Passover sacrificial
lambs and the Passover meal (cf. Luke 22:1‑23). Paul clearly identified
the Lord Jesus as the Passover lamb: “For Christ, our Passover lamb, has
been sacrificed” (1 Cor. 5:7). One can see that the first Passover,
along with each subsequent annual remembrance of Passover, was an event
of great significance, one which was to be celebrated from that time on.

Conclusion

### The meaning of the Passover plague for the Egyptians

The Passover and the plague of the firstborn had several purposes with
regard to the Egyptians.

**(1) The Passover and the plague of the firstborn was a defeat of
Egypt’s gods:**“On that same night I will pass through Egypt and strike
down every firstborn—both men and animals—and I will bring judgment on
all the gods of Egypt; I am the Lord” (Exod. 12:12). As the tenth and
final plague, the smiting of the firstborn of Egypt conclusively proved
that the “gods” of Egypt were powerless, non‑existent, while the God of
Israel was all‑powerful.

**(2) The Passover and the plague of the firstborn served as the final
blow, which compelled the Egyptians to let the Israelites go** (Exod.
3:20; 6:1; 11:1; 12:31‑32). After the death of the firstborn of Egypt,
the Egyptians did not want to be reminded of their grief by seeing the
Israelites. Thus, this final plague brought the Egyptians to the point
where they virtually compelled the Israelites to leave. This plague
accomplished precisely what God intended, and what Moses had been asking
for all along.

**(3) The plague of the firstborn was an appropriate punishment of
Egyptians for their oppression of Israel** (Gen. 15:14; Exod. 1 and 2;
7:14ff.). God had told Abraham that the oppressive nation (which we now
know to be Egypt) which would enslave Israel would be punished (Gen.
15:14). The plague of the firstborn was exceedingly appropriate since
the Egyptians were seeking to kill all of the male babies born to the
Israelites (cf. Exod. 1:22).

**(4) The Passover and the plague of the firstborn was an act of grace,
as well as an act of judgment**. I believe that there is grace to be
seen in this final plague (as in the rest), not only toward the
Israelites, but also toward the Egyptians. The plagues revealed the
powerlessness of the gods of Egypt, and the power of the God of Israel.
The plagues pointed out the sin of the Egyptians and their need to
repent and believe in the God of Israel. While the account is not
written to underscore the conversion of Egyptians (the thrust of the
account is on the judgment of Egypt, especially her gods), I think that
there is ample evidence to suggest that some of the Egyptians were
converted to true faith in the God of Israel.

In the first place, most of the plagues were preceded by an announcement
and a warning. Each succeeding plague was further proof of God’s
existence and power, and gave greater substance to the warnings which
followed. All of the Egyptians came to respect Moses (11:3), and some
took heed to his warnings (9:13‑21). Provision was also made for
non‑Israelites to partake of the Passover, if they were circumcised
(acknowledging their faith in the Abrahamic Covenant, cf. Exod.
12:48‑49; Gen. 17:9‑14). Since there were many non‑Israelites who left
Egypt with Israel (Exod. 12:38), it is likely that a number were
converted and physically spared from death through the process of the
plagues and the provision of the Passover.

**(5) The Passover and the plague of the firstborn was an occasion for
God to manifest His great power:**“But I have raised you up for this
very purpose, that I might show you my power and that my name might be
proclaimed in all the earth” (Exod. 9:16). Like it or not, God is the
Creator of the universe (in general) and of man (in particular). As
man’s Creator, God is absolutely justified in dealing with His creation
as He sees fit (cf. Romans 9). When the sinfulness of man is added to
his creatureliness, God’s wrath is even more clearly seen to be right.

### The meaning of the Passover for the Israelites

The Passover and the final plague also had great meaning and
significance for the Israelites.

**(1) The Passover and the tenth plague served as a judgment on the gods
of Egypt, whom the Israelites had worshipped in Egypt** (cf. Josh.
24:14). Because the Israelites had also worshipped the gods of Egypt,
the judgment of these gods caused God’s people to turn from their false
worship, at least for the moment. Ridding them of their false worship
entirely was a much more long‑term operation, but this was at least a
beginning.

**(2) The Passover was for Israel a manifestation of God’s power**. One
of the most commonly repeated phrases employed in conjunction with the
Passover is “with a mighty hand” (Exod. 13:3, 9, 14, 16; cf. 15:6, 12;
16:3). The power of God was made manifest by the Passover and the
plagues.

**(3) The Passover and the plague of the firstborn was proof of God’s
possession of Israel**. When Moses spoke to Pharaoh about the
Israelites, he said, “Let My son go, that he may serve Me” (Exod. 4:23).
The fact that God claimed to possess the firstborn, so that they needed
to be redeemed (13:1‑2; 11‑16), evidenced God’s ownership. When God
freed the Israelites, He did so so that they may become His servants. As
we shall show later, the giving of the Law on Mt. Sinai was based upon
the events of the exodus (cf. Deut. 5:6ff.). The firstborn of Israel
thus belonged to God as a result of the Passover, and all of Israel as a
result of the exodus. Israel was God’s possession. All of the
commandments and requirements which God placed upon the Israelites was
predicated upon the fact that they were a people who belonged to Him.

**(4) The Passover was another evidence of the grace of God in the lives
of His people**. The firstborn of Israel were not spared because they
were more worthy or more righteous than the Egyptians. Like the
Egyptians, the Israelites were sinners, fully deserving of divine wrath.
Had Israel been worthy, there would have been no need of the sacrifice
of the Passover lamb, with its blood applied to the door frame. The
firstborn of Israel were spared due to the grace of God alone. God’s
provision of a means of escape was based upon His grace, not Israel’s
merits.

### The meaning of the Passover for unbelieving men and women today

There is no clearer example of salvation by grace in the Old Testament
than the Passover which we have just studied. Every person in Egypt,
whether an Israelite or an Egyptian, was worthy of God’s divine
judgment. The reason why men find the judgment of God in the smiting of
the firstborn so difficult to justify is that they do not grasp the
seriousness of their own sin. I happened to overhear a small portion of
a television program the other day, where a young woman asked, “Do I
have to suffer the rest of my life for one little indiscretion?”
Whatever her “indiscretion” was, I would imagine it would better be
labeled “sin.” So the answer to her question should be, “For as much as
one sin, God is just in condemning you, not only for time, but for all
eternity.” The reason why we have so much difficulty with the subject of
judgment is that we fail to comprehend the immensity of our sin. The
striking of the firstborn of Egypt should cause us to rethink the matter
of sin.

Our attitude toward sin is very much shaped by our own perspectives and
experiences. Drunks are people we can laugh at, until they get behind
the wheel and kill one of our loved ones. Sex offenders are people who
simply have a different sexual orientation or preferences, until they
molest someone close to us. So, too, idolatrous worship doesn’t seem
very serious, until we view this evil from God’s perspective. Ignoring
God does not seem so serious, until we understand the importance of
trusting and obeying Him.

Once we have come to grips with the seriousness of sin, we need to focus
on the solution. Just as the firstborn were worthy of divine judgment,
and in danger of it, God’s solution must be believed and acted upon. The
divinely provided protection from the death angel was the sacrifice of a
lamb, with its blood applied to the door frame. All those who remained
within the house which had blood applied to its door frame were spared.

Just as the firstborn in Egypt were in danger of being smitten by the
death angel, so men, women, and children are in danger of living out
eternity in Hell, enduring the eternal wrath of God (cf. Rev. 20:11‑15).
The solution to the problem is, once again, a Lamb, the Lamb of God,
Jesus Christ, on whom our sins were laid. He died for our sins; He bore
the wrath of God, so that men could escape from the coming wrath of God,
and could participate in His promised blessings (Isa. 53). It is my
prayer that you will, even at this moment, accept the salvation which
God offers to you through the sacrifice of His Son, who has been raised
from the dead and who will return to the earth to execute judgment on
all those who have rejected His sacrifice (cf. 2 Thes. 1). The offer of
salvation is before you.

### The meaning of the Passover for Christians

The New Testament teaches a number of practical applications of the
Passover for contemporary Christians. Let me outline some of them
briefly.

**(1) Because Christ is our Passover Lamb, we are God’s possession**.
The firstborn of Israel had to be redeemed because God had spared them,
and thus they belonged to Him. While only some of those Israelites who
were in Egypt were firstborn, and thus in need of being redeemed, all of
us who have trusted in Christ belong to Him. Every child of God belongs
to God, and must live in the light of belonging to Him. “You are not
your own; you were bought at a price. Therefore honor God with your
body” (1 Cor. 6:19‑20). “You were bought at a price; do not become
slaves of men” (1 Cor. 7:23).

Since the firstborn of the Israelites belonged to God, they had to
sacrifice them (in the case of an animal, except for the donkey, 13:13),
or (in the case of a son) to offer a sacrifice to redeem them. Because
God has spared us from His wrath by His mercy, we are to offer ourselves
as a living sacrifice: “Therefore, I urge you, brothers, in view of
God’s mercy, to offer your bodies as living sacrifices, holy and
pleasing to God—which is your spiritual worship” (Rom. 12:1).

Because Christians have been redeemed by the Lamb of God, they do not
belong to themselves, and they must therefore live out their lives as a
living sacrifice to God. I fear that all too many presentations of the
gospel do not inform people that when they come to faith in Christ, they
cease to own themselves, and that they become Christ’s possession. In
fact, all men belong to God by virtue of creation, and all Christians
belong (doubly) to God by virtue of redemption. We cannot live our lives
independently, autonomously, as Christians, but we must live them out as
those who have been bought with a price and as those who belong to God.
Just as God’s claims on the Israelites were spelled out in the Law,
given a little later on in Israel’s history, so God’s claims on our
lives as believers are given to us in the Scriptures. Let us heed His
commandments well, for we belong to Him.

**(2) Because Christ is our Passover lamb, we must live our lives in
purity, in holy living**. In the first epistle of Paul to the
Corinthians, we read, “Get rid of the old yeast that you may be a new
batch without yeast—as you really are. For Christ, our Passover lamb,
has been sacrificed. Therefore let us keep the Festival, not with the
old yeast, the yeast of malice and wickedness, but with bread without
yeast, the bread of sincerity and truth” (1 Cor. 5:6‑8).

In the context of this chapter in First Corinthians, Paul has been
speaking of a Christian who was living with the wife of his father
(5:1). The Corinthians had not done anything to remedy the situation,
and even seemed to be proud of their liberality in this matter (5:2).
Paul told them he had already acted (5:3‑4), and that they should do
likewise, by putting this man out of the assembly.

The principle on which Paul based his instruction was that of the
relationship between the sacrifice of the Passover lamb and the
observance of the Feast of Unleavened Bread. The sacrifice of the
Passover lamb set in motion the Feast of Unleavened Bread. Since Christ
is our Passover lamb, and He has already been sacrificed, the
Corinthians should begin the Feast of Unleavened Bread, looking for any
sign of leaven (a symbol of sin) and putting it far away from them
(5:7‑8). Thus the fact that Christ is our Passover lamb necessitates
maintaining purity in our lives, and in the church as well.

**(3) The Passover teaches us the important role played by religious
ceremony (liturgy, if you prefer) in the Christian’s experience**. By
the annual observance of Passover and the Feast of Unleavened Bread, God
not only reminded His people of His mighty deeds in the past, but also
taught them concerning the future. The institution of the Lord’s Table
(“communion”) serves the same purposes. The observance of the Lord’s
Table reminds the Christian of the salvation which our Lord accomplished
by His death, burial, and resurrection (cf. Lu. 22:14‑22; 1 Cor.
11:17‑34). Unfortunately, Christians have come to take the remembrance
of our Lord lightly, and do it infrequently, often as a kind of footnote
to some other service. Let us learn to value and to practice those times
of remembrance and anticipation which God has established and commanded
us to do.

Just as the Passover celebrations (including the redemption of the
firstborn and the Feast of Unleavened Bread) provided an opportunity to
instruct the children concerning God’s work in the past and its bearing
on the present, so the Lord’s table and baptism provide us with teaching
opportunities which we dare not neglect.

**(4) The Passover (Passion) of our Lord is a pattern for Christians
regarding suffering**. While it is true that the Egyptians suffered for
their sins in the plague of the firstborn (and the other plagues too),
we ought not overlook the suffering of the Israelites during the 400
years of oppression, and even during the days which immediately preceded
the exodus. Some Christians believe that suffering is not to be a part
of the experience of one who trusts in the Lord and is obedient to Him.
This is entirely untrue. Ultimately, it was not those many Passover
lambs which spared the Israelite firstborn from death, it was the
suffering and death of the Lamb of God, who died for all who would
believe. The Passover necessitated the suffering of the Son of God. The
degree to which He suffered can only be estimated in the light of the
holiness of God and the dread which our Lord experienced in the Garden
of Gethsemane when He anticipated the cross.

In the first epistle of Peter, the apostle informs Christians who are
suffering that the passion, the suffering of the Lord Jesus, the
Passover lamb, was a pattern for the suffering of all the saints (cf. 1
Pet. 2:16‑24). The Lord Jesus, as the Passover lamb, is the pattern for
Christian suffering, and the way it should be dealt with.

Paul also speaks of our suffering in “Passover” terms. In the 8th
chapter of his epistle to the Romans, Paul writes of the victory which
the Christian can have in suffering (8:31‑35). He then quotes this
passage from Psalm 44 to show that we, like Christ, are called to suffer
as “sheep”: “For your sake we face death all day long; we are considered
as sheep to be slaughtered” (Rom. 8:36).

In the context of Psalm 44, from which this citation was taken, we learn
that those saints who suffered as described above were those who were
faithful to God, not those who were disobedient. The Passover lamb is
therefore a pattern for the saints, showing us that innocent suffering
is often a part of God’s will for the righteous, and that through the
suffering of the saints, God’s purposes may be accomplished.

Let no one seek to suffer in this way, but let no one dare to suggest
that suffering in the life of the saint is inappropriate, the result of
either sin or unbelief. The suffering of the Passover lamb is the
pattern for the saints to follow when they suffer.

