---
title: "Pastor-Teachers"
pdf: "pastorteachers.pdf"
description: "Pastor-Teachers - [PDF] the pastor-teacher has a spiritual gift that he does not deserve and cannot earn."
template: lesson.jade
---


**Pastor Teachers 2**

Pastor Teachers in the Church Age  

Functions and Responsibilities

Because in the present Church Age each and every saint is a
Royal-Priest, it is necessary to outline and comprehend the system that
God has ordained for the spiritual advancement of the saints. There are
two kinds of authority in the present dispensation, the Church Age: 1)
the Word of God as contained in Holy Scripture, and includes the concept
of pastor/teacher; 2) the authority of the free-will of every saint. And
the pastor/teacher brings together these two forms of authority to the
saints.

To do this, the pastor/teacher has had bestowed upon him a spiritual
gift that he does not deserve and cannot earn. The gift of
pastor/teacher provides the individual with the talents and strength
necessary to communicate the Word of God. The gift is given at the point
of salvation and, as already stated, is not based on merit of any type.
The gift is given by God the Holy Spirit, and it would be presumptuous
to attempt to document his criteria for assigning the gift.

I Timothy 2:11,12 is one of the most controversial passages in
Scripture. The question revolves around this: Does God the Holy Spirit
give the gift of pastor/teacher to females? Opinions abound, the
discussion is endless, and connections too tenuous to be defined are
cited. Based on a grammatical, syntactical and etymological analysis the
passage, the author asserts that the answer to the question is ‘no, God
the Holy Spirit does not bestow the gift of pastor/teacher on women.’
The author also asserts that the question, aside from Scriptural
analysis and its acceptance or dissension, should be directed to God the
Holy Spirit, not the author. As Paul with Philemon, the author refuses
to impose his exegetical conclusions upon others, other than to state
that the tumult that the question arouses is beyond belief.

The concept of ‘pastor/teacher’ is based on four Greek words from the
New Testament:

1. PRESBUTEROS, which means leader or ruler and stresses the pastor’s
spiritual authority.

According to Titus 1:5 and I Peter 5:1 there is one such PRESBUTEROS per
local church.

2. POIMENAS KAI DIDASKALOS, which means “pastor and teacher;” the pastor
part refers to caring for the sheep and the teacher part refers to
communicating the Word of God. The reference is found in Ephesians 4:11,
which says, “It was he who gave some to be apostles, some to be
prophets, some to be evangelists, and some to be pastors and teachers.”

3. EPISKOPOS, which means “overseer or foreman;” this is the function of
the pastor as the spiritual policymaker, which policy must be based upon
Scripture and the concept of grace. Some Scripture references are
Philippians 1:1, I Timothy 3:2, Titus 1:7.

4. DIAKONOS, which means “minister” but is usually transliterated
‘deacon.’

Citations are I Corinthians 3:5 and Colossians 1:7,23, which say, 7 “You
learned it from Epaphras, our dear fellow minister of Christ on our
behalf.”

This brings up the next idea: Why does the position/gift of
pastor/teacher exist? The answer is found in Ephesians 4:12,13, which
say, “To prepare God’s people for works of service, so that the body of
Christ may be built up until we all reach unity in the faith and in the
knowledge of the Son of God and become mature, attaining to the whole
measure of the fullness of Christ.” In other words, without a
pastor/teacher, the saints cannot attain spiritual maturity. This is a
remarkable and, to some, a shocking statement.

Now that we have the ‘why’ of the pastor/teacher, ‘how’ does the
pastor/teacher perform this sensitive and vital function? The answer is
found in Ephesians 4:20,21, which say, “You, however, did not come to
know Christ that way. Surely you heard of him and were taught him in
accordance with the truth that is in Jesus.” In other words, the
pastor/teacher is to teach what the Word of God says; only by doing this
may the saints become spiritually mature. And this ‘teaching’
presupposes the spiritual gift of pastor/teacher, human maturity,
education and scholarship, self-discipline manifested in good study
habits, academic and spiritual honesty, and the courage to teach what
Scripture says without being afraid of insulting or offending the
saints.

Thus, it may be seen that the pastor/teacher must be careful to stay
within the bounds of the gift. This means not intruding on the spiritual
privacy of the saints, not judging the saints, nor making private and
personal decisions for the saints. This does not, however, preclude
normal social and/or human intercourse such as friendship, interest, or
even love.

According to I Corinthians 12:11,28, pastor/teachers are provided the
gift at the moment of salvation. “All these are the work of one and the
same Spirit, and he gives them to each one, just as he determines. 28
And in the church God has appointed first of all apostles, second
prophets, third teachers, then workers of miracles, also those having
gifts of healing, those able to help others, those with gifts of
administration, and those speaking in different kinds of tongues.”

I Peter 5:1,2 outlines the function of the pastor/teacher and seems to
assert that God provides just the right pastor for each church: “Be
shepherds of God’s flock that is under your care, serving as overseers –
not because you must, but because you are willing, as God wants you to
be; not greedy for money, but eager to serve.”

Ephesians 3:7, I Corinthians 15:10 and I Timothy 1:12-16 declare
unequivocally that all pastor/teachers are the products of grace; they
have no claim to entitlement. And further documentation concerning the
concept of pastor/teacher may be found in Ephesians 3:7-13; 4:11-13,
Colossians 1:23-29, I Timothy 2:24-26, I Timothy 3:1-9, and Titus 1:6-9.

The pastor/teacher’s spiritual sanction is found in the book of Hebrews,
chapter 13, verses 7 and 17, which say, 17 “Obey your leaders and submit
to their authority (in the teaching of spiritual matters). They keep
watch over you (their function as pastor) as men who must give an
account (to Christ). Obey them so that their work will be a joy, not a
burden, for that would be of no advantage to you. 7”Remember your
leaders, who spoke the word of God to you. Consider the outcome of their
way of life and imitate their faith."

And Hebrews 13:17 compared with Hebrews 6:10 tell us that
pastor/teachers are responsible to God, our Lord Jesus Christ, for their
correct and appropriate function: “God is not unjust; he will not forget
you work and the love you have shown him as you have helped his people
and continue to help them.” (Heb. 6:10)

Finally, according to Philippians 4:10-20, the saints are to provide for
their pastor/teachers’ physical needs and wants. This enables the
pastor/teachers to fulfill their functions without having to be
concerned about food, clothing, shelter, transportation. Here in verse
10 Paul uses the very delicate word translated “concern for me;” in the
Greek the term is PHRONEO, which is “to direct one’s mind to a thing,”
i.e., to direct their minds to Paul’s provision. 10 “I rejoice greatly
in the Lord that at last you have renewed your concern for me. Indeed,
you have been concerned, but you had not opportunity to show it. 17 Not
that I am looking for a gift, but I am looking for what may be credited
to your account.”

