---
title: "Paul's Missionary Labors"
pdf: "paulmissionarylabors.pdf"
description: "The public life of Paul, from the third year after his conversion to his martyrdom, A.D. 40-64, embraces a quarter of a century, three great missionary campaigns with minor expeditions, five visits to Jerusalem, and at least four years of captivity in Caesarea and Rome."
tableofcontents: true
template: topic.jade
---

The public life of Paul, from the third year after his conversion to his
martyrdom, A.D. 40–64, embraces a quarter of a century, three great
missionary campaigns with minor expeditions, five visits to Jerusalem,
and at least four years of captivity in Caesarea and Rome. Some extend
this period to A.D. 67 or 68. It may be divided into periods, as
follows:

A.D. 40–44
----------

The period of preparatory labors in Syria and his native Cilicia, partly
alone, partly in connection with Barnabas, his senior fellow-apostle
among the Gentiles.

On his return from the Arabian retreat Paul began his public ministry in
earnest at Damascus, preaching Christ on the very spot where he had been
converted and called. His testimony enraged the Jews, who stirred up the
deputy of the king of Arabia against him, but he was saved for future
usefulness and let down by the brethren in a basket through a window in
the wall of the city. Three years after his conversion he went up to
Jerusalem to make the acquaintance of Peter and spent a fortnight with
him. Besides him he saw James the brother of the Lord. Barnabas
introduced him to the disciples, who at first were afraid of him, but
when they heard of his marvellous conversion they “glorified God” that
their persecutor was now preaching the faith he had once been laboring
to destroy. He did not come to learn the gospel, having received it
already by revelation, nor to be confirmed or ordained, having been
called “not from men, or through man, but through Jesus Christ.” Yet his
interview with Peter and James, though barely mentioned, must have been
fraught with the deepest interest. Peter, kind-hearted and generous as
he was, would naturally receive him with joy and thanksgiving. He had
himself once denied the Lord—not malignantly but from weakness—as Paul
had persecuted the disciples—ignorantly in unbelief. Both had been
mercifully pardoned, both had seen the Lord, both were called to the
highest dignity, both could say from the bottom of the heart: “Lord thou
knowest all things; thou knowest that I love thee.” No doubt they would
exchange their experiences and confirm each other in their common faith.

It was probably on this visit that Paul received in a vision in the
temple the express command of the Lord to go quickly unto the Gentiles.
Had he stayed longer at the seat of the Sanhedrin, he would undoubtedly
have met the fate of the martyr Stephen.

He visited Jerusalem a second time during the famine under Claudius, in
the year 44, accompanied by Barnabas, on a benevolent mission, bearing a
collection of the Christians at Antioch for the relief of the brethren
in Judaea. On that occasion he probably saw none of the apostles on
account of the persecution in which James was beheaded, and Peter
imprisoned.

The greater part of these four years was spent in missionary work at
Tarsus and Antioch.

A.D. 45–50
----------

First missionary journey. In the year 45 Paul entered upon the first
great missionary journey, in company with Barnabas and Mark, by the
direction of the Holy Spirit through the prophets of the congregation at
Antioch. He traversed the island of Cyprus and several provinces of Asia
Minor. The conversion of the Roman proconsul, Sergius Paulus, at Paphos;
the rebuke and punishment of the Jewish sorcerer, Elymas; the marked
success of the gospel in Pisidia, and the bitter opposition of the
unbelieving Jews; the miraculous healing of a cripple at Lystra; the
idolatrous worship there offered to Paul and Barnabas by the
superstitious heathen, and its sudden change into hatred against them as
enemies of the gods; the stoning of the missionaries, their escape from
death, and their successful return to Antioch, are the leading incidents
of this tour, which is fully described in Acts 13 and 14.

This period closes with the important apostolic conference at Jerusalem,
A.D. 50, which will require separate consideration in the next section.

From A.D. 51–54
---------------

Second missionary journey. After the council at Jerusalem and the
temporary adjustment of the difference between the Jewish and Gentile
branches of the church, Paul undertook, in the year 51, a second great
journey, which decided the Christianization of Greece. He took Silas for
his companion. Having first visited his old churches, he proceeded, with
the help of Silas and the young convert, Timothy, to establish new ones
through the provinces of Phrygia and Galatia, where, notwithstanding his
bodily infirmity, he was received with open arms like an angel of God.

From Troas, a few miles south of the Homeric Troy and the entrance to
the Hellespont, he crossed over to Greece in answer to the Macedonian
cry: “Come over and help us!” He preached the gospel with great success,
first in Philippi, where he converted the purple dealer, Lydia, and the
jailor, and was imprisoned with Silas, but miraculously delivered and
honorably released; then in Thessalonica, where he was persecuted by the
Jews, but left a flourishing church; in Beraea, where the converts
showed exemplary zeal in searching the Scriptures. In Athens, the
metropolis of classical literature, he reasoned with Stoic and Epicurean
philosophers, and unveiled to them on Mars’ Hill (Areopagus), with
consummate tact and wisdom, though without much immediate success, the
“unknown God,” to whom the Athenians, in their superstitious anxiety to
do justice to all possible divinities, had unconsciously erected an
altar, and Jesus Christ, through whom God will judge the world in
righteousness. In Corinth, the commercial bridge between the East and
the West, a flourishing centre of wealth and culture, but also a sink of
vice and corruption, the apostle spent eighteen months, and under almost
insurmountable difficulties he built up a church, which exhibited all
the virtues and all the faults of the Grecian character under the
influence of the gospel, and which he honored with two of his most
important Epistles.

In the spring of 54 he returned by way of Ephesus, Caesarea, and
Jerusalem to Antioch.

During this period he composed the two Epistles to the Thessalonians,
which are the earliest of his literary remains excepting his missionary
addresses preserved in the Acts.

A.D. 54–58
----------

Third missionary tour. Towards the close of the year 54 Paul went to
Ephesus, and in this renowned capital of proconsular Asia and of the
worship of Diana, he fixed for three years the centre of his missionary
work. He then revisited his churches in Macedonia and Achaia, and
remained three months more in Corinth and the vicinity.

During this period he wrote the great doctrinal Epistles to the
Galatians, Corinthians, and Romans, which mark the height of his
activity and usefulness.

A.D. 58–63
----------

The period of his two imprisonments, with the intervening winter voyage
from Caesarea to Rome. In the spring of 58 he journeyed, for the fifth
and last time, to Jerusalem, by way of Philippi, Troas, Miletus (where
he delivered his affecting valedictory to the Ephesian
presbyter-bishops), Tyre, and Caesarea, to carry again to the poor
brethren in Judaea a contribution from the Christians of Greece, and by
this token of gratitude and love to cement the two branches of the
apostolic church more firmly together.

But some fanatical Jews, who bitterly bated him as an apostate and a
seducer of the people, raised an uproar against him at Pentecost;
charged him with profaning the temple, because he had taken into it an
uncircumcised Greek, Trophimus; dragged him out of the sanctuary, lest
they should defile it with blood, and would undoubtedly have killed him
had not Claudius Lysias, the Roman tribune, who lived near by, come
promptly with his soldiers to the spot. This officer rescued Paul, out
of respect for his Roman citizenship, from the fury of the mob, set him
the next day before the Sanhedrin, and after a tumultuous and fruitless
session of the council, and the discovery of a plot against his life,
sent him, with a strong military guard and a certificate of innocence,
to the procurator Felix in Caesarea.

Here the apostle was confined two whole years (58–60), awaiting his
trial before the Sanhedrin, uncondemned, occasionally speaking before
Felix, apparently treated with comparative mildness, visited by the
Christians, and in some way not known to us promoting the kingdom of
God.

After the accession of the new and better procurator, Festus, who is
known to have succeeded Felix in the year 60, Paul, as a Roman citizen,
appealed to the tribunal of Caesar and thus opened the way to the
fulfilment of his long-cherished desire to preach the Saviour of the
world in the metropolis of the world. Having once more testified his
innocence, and spoken for Christ in a masterly defence before Festus,
King Herod Agrippa II. (the last of the Herods), his sister Bernice, and
the most distinguished men of Caesarea, he was sent in the autumn of the
year 60 to the emperor. He had a stormy voyage and suffered shipwreck,
which detained him over winter at Malta. The voyage is described with
singular minuteness and nautical accuracy by Luke as an eye-witness. In
the month of March of the year 61, the apostle, with a few faithful
companions, reached Rome, a prisoner of Christ, and yet freer and
mightier than the emperor on the throne. It was the seventh year of
Nero’s reign, when he had already shown his infamous character by the
murder of Agrippina, his mother, in the previous year, and other acts of
cruelty.

In Rome Paul spent at least two years till the spring of 63, in easy
confinement, awaiting the decision of his case, and surrounded by
friends and fellow-laborers “in his own hired dwelling.” He preached the
gospel to the soldiers of the imperial body-guard, who attended him;
sent letters and messages to his distant churches in Asia Minor and
Greece; watched over all their spiritual affairs, and completed in bonds
his apostolic fidelity to the Lord and his church.

In the Roman prison he wrote the Epistles to the Colossians, Ephesians,
Philippians, and Philemon.

A.D. 63 and 64
--------------

With the second year of Paul’s imprisonment in Rome the account of Luke
breaks off, rather abruptly, yet appropriately and grandly. Paul’s
arrival in Rome secured the triumph of Christianity. In this sense it
was true, “Roma locuta est, causa finita est.” And he who spoke at Rome
is not dead; he is still “preaching (everywhere) the kingdom of God and
teaching the things concerning the Lord Jesus Christ, with all boldness,
none forbidding him.”

But what became of him after the termination of those two years in the
spring of 63? What was the result of the trial so long delayed? Was he
condemned to death? or was he released by Nero’s tribunal, and thus
permitted to labor for another season? This question is still unsettled
among scholars. A vague tradition says that Paul was acquitted of the
charge of the Sanhedrin, and after travelling again in the East, perhaps
also into Spain, was a second time imprisoned in Rome and condemned to
death. The assumption of a second Roman captivity relieves certain
difficulties in the Pastoral Epistles; for they seem to require a short
period of freedom between the first and a second Roman captivity, and a
visit to the East, which is not recorded in the Acts, but which the
apostle contemplated in case of his release. A visit to Spain, which he
intended, is possible, though less probable. If he was set at liberty,
it must have been before the terrible persecution in July, 64, which
would not have spared the great leader of the Christian sect. It is a
remarkable coincidence that just about the close of the second year of
Paul’s confinement, the celebrated Jewish historian, Josephus, then in
his 27th year, came to Rome (after a tempestuous voyage and shipwreck),
and effected through the influence of Poppaea (the wife of Nero and a
half proselyte of Judaism) the release of certain Jewish priests who had
been sent to Rome by Felix as prisoners. It is not impossible that Paul
may have reaped the benefit of a general release of Jewish prisoners.

The martyrdom of Paul under Nero is established by the unanimous
testimony of antiquity. As a Roman citizen, he was not crucified, like
Peter, but put to death by the sword. The scene of his martyrdom is laid
by tradition about three miles from Rome, near the Ostian way, on a
green spot, formerly called Aquae Salviae, afterwards Tre Fontane, from
the three fountains which are said to have miraculously gushed forth
from the blood of the apostolic martyr. His relics were ultimately
removed to the basilica of San Paolo-fuori-le-Mura, built by Theodosius
and Valentinian in 388, and recently reconstructed. He lies outside of
Rome, Peter inside. His memory is celebrated, together with that of
Peter, on the 29th and 30th of June. As to the year of his death, the
views vary from A.D. 64 to 69. The difference of the place and manner of
his martyrdom suggests that he was condemned by a regular judicial
trial, either shortly before, or more probably a year or two after the
horrible wholesale massacre of Christians on the Vatican hill, in which
his Roman citizenship would not have been regarded. If he was released
in the spring of 63, he had a year and a half for another visit to the
East and to Spain before the outbreak of the Neronian persecution (after
July, 64); but tradition favors a later date. Prudentius separates the
martyrdom of Peter from that of Paul by one year. After that persecution
the Christians were everywhere exposed to danger.

Assuming the release of Paul and another visit to the East, we must
locate the First Epistle to Timothy and the Epistle to Titus between the
first and second Roman captivity, and the Second Epistle to Timothy in
the second captivity. The last was evidently written in the certain view
of approaching martyrdom; it is the affectionate farewell of the aged
apostle to his beloved Timothy, and his last will and testament to the
militant church below in the bright prospect of the unfading crown in
the church triumphant above.

Thus ended the earthly course of this great teacher of nations, this
apostle of victorious faith, of evangelical freedom, of Christian
progress. It was the heroic career of a spiritual conqueror of immortal
souls for Christ, converting them from the service of sin and Satan to
the service of the living God, from the bondage of the law to the
freedom of the gospel, and leading them to the fountain of life eternal.
He labored more abundantly than all the other apostles; and yet, in
sincere humility, he considered himself “the least of the apostles,” and
“not meet to be called an apostle,” because he persecuted the church of
God; a few years later he confessed: “I am less than the least of all
saints,” and shortly before his death: “I am the chief of sinners.” His
humility grew as he experienced God’s mercy and ripened for heaven. Paul
passed a stranger and pilgrim through this world, hardly observed by the
mighty and the wise of his age. And yet how infinitely more noble,
beneficial, and enduring was his life and work than the dazzling march
of military conquerors, who, prompted by ambitions absorbed millions of
treasure and myriads of lives, only to die at last in a drunken fit at
Babylon, or of a broken heart on the rocks of St. Helena! Their empires
have long since crumbled into dust, but St. Paul still remains one of
the foremost benefactors of the human race, and the pulses of his mighty
heart are beating with stronger force than ever throughout the Christian
world.

Note on Paul’s 2<sup>nd</sup> Roman Captivity
---------------------------------------------

The question of a second Roman captivity of Paul is a purely historical
and critical problem, and has no doctrinal or ethical bearing, except
that it facilitates the defence of the genuineness of the Pastoral
Epistles. The best scholars are still divided on the subject. Neander,
Gieseler, Bleek, Ewald, Lange, Sabatier, Godet, also Renan (Saint Paul,
p. 560, and L’Antechrist, p. 106), and nearly all English biographers
and commentators, as Alford, Wordsworth, Howson, Lewin, Farrar,
Plumptre, Ellicott, Lightfoot, defend the second captivity, and thus
prolong the labors of Paul for a few years. On the other hand not only
radical and skeptical critics, as Baur, Zeller, Schenkel, Reuss,
Holtzmann, and all who reject the Pastoral Epistles (except Renan), but
also conservative exegetes and historians, as Niedner, Thiersch, Meyer,
Wieseler, Ebrard, Otto, Beck, Pressensé, deny the second captivity. I
have discussed the problem at length in my Hist. of the Apost. Church, §
87, pp. 328–347, and spin in my annotations to Lange on Romans, pp.
10–12. I will restate the chief arguments in favor of a second
captivity, partly in rectification of my former opinion.

1. The main argument are the Pastoral Epistles, if genuine, as I hold
them to be, notwithstanding all the objections of the opponents from De
Wette (1826) and Baur (1835) to Renan (1873) and Holtzmann (1880). It
is, indeed, not impossible to assign them to any known period in Paul’s
life before his captivity, as during his three years’ sojourn in Ephesus
(54–57), or his eighteen months’ sojourn in Corinth (52–53), but it is
very difficult to do so. The Epistles presuppose journeys of the apostle
not mentioned in Acts, and belong apparently to an advanced period in
his life, as well as in the history of truth and error in the apostolic
church.

2. The release of Timothy from a captivity in Italy, probably in Rome,
to which the author of the Epistle to the Hebrews 13:23 alludes, may
have some connection with the release of Paul, who had probably a share
in the inspiration, if not in the composition, of that remarkable
production.

3. The oldest post-apostolic witness is Clement of Rome, who wrote about
95:, Paul … having come to the limit of the West (ἐπὶ τὸ τέρμα τη̂ς
δύσεως ἐλθων) and borne witness before the magistrates (μαρτυρήσας επὶ
τω̂ν ἡγουμένων, which others translate, “having suffered martyrdom under
the rulers”), departed from the world and went to the holy place, having
furnished the sublimest model of endurance" (Ad Corinth. c. 5).
Considering that Clement wrote in Rome, the most natural interpretation
of τέρμα τη̂ς δύσεως, “the extreme west,” is Spain or Britain; and as
Paul intended to carry the gospel to Spain, one would first think of
that country, which was in constant commercial intercourse with Rome,
and had produced distinguished statesmen and writers like Seneca and
Lucan. Strabo (II. 1) calls the pillars of Hercules πέρατα τη̂ς
οἰκουμένης; and Velleius Paterc. calls Spain “extremus nostri orbis
terminus.” See Lightfoot, St. Clement, p. 50. But the inference is
weakened by the absence of any trace or tradition of Paul’s visit to
Spain. Still less can he have suffered martyrdom there, as the logical
order of the words would imply. And as Clement wrote to the Corinthians,
he may, from their geographical standpoint, have called the Roman
capital the end of the West. At all events the passage is rhetorical (it
speaks of seven imprisonments, ἑπτάκις δεσμὰ φορέσας), and proves
nothing for further labors in the East.

4. An incomplete passage in the fragmentary Muratorian canon (about A.D.
170): “Sed profectionem Pauli ab urbe ad Spaniam proficiscentis …” seems
to imply a journey of Paul to Spain, which Luke has omitted; but this is
merely a conjecture, as the verb has to be supplied. Comp., however,
Westcott, The Canon of the N. Test., p. 189, and Append. C., p. 467, and
Renan, L’Antechrist, p. 106 sq.

5. Eusebius (d. 310) first clearly asserts that “there is a tradition
(λόγος ἔχει) that the apostle, after his defence, again set forth to the
ministry of his preaching and having entered a second time the same city
[Rome], was perfected by his martyrdom before him [Nero].” Hist. Eccl.
II. 22 (comp. ch. 25). But the force of this testimony is weakened first
by its late date; secondly, by the vague expression λόγος ἔχει, “it is
said,” and the absence of any reference to older authorities (usually
quoted by Eusebius); thirdly, by his misunderstanding of 2 Tim. 4:16,
17, which he explains in the same connection of a deliverance from the
first imprisonment (as if ἀπολογία were identical with αἰχμαλωσία); and
lastly by his chronological mistake as to the time of the first
imprisonment which, in his “Chronicle,” he misdates A.D. 58, that is,
three years before the actual arrival of Paul in Rome. On the other hand
he puts the conflagration of Rome two years too late, A.D. 66, instead
of 64, and the Neronian persecution, and the martyrdom of Paul and
Peter, in the year 70.

6. Jerome (d. 419): “Paul was dismissed by Nero that he might preach
Christ’s gospel also in the regions of the West (in Occidentis quoque
partibus). De Vir. ill. sub Paulus. This echoes the τέρμα τη̂ς δύσεως of
Clement. Chrysostom (d. 407), Theodoret, and other fathers assert that
Paul went to Spain (Rom. 15:28), but without adducing any proof.

These post-apostolic testimonies, taken together, make it very probable,
but not historically certain, that Paul was released after the spring of
63, and enjoyed an Indian summer of missionary work before his
Martyrdom. The only remaining monuments, as well as the best proof, of
this concluding work are the Pastoral Epistles, if we admit them to be
genuine. To my mind the historical difficulties of the Pastoral Epistles
are an argument for rather than against their Pauline origin. For why
should a forger invent difficulties when he might so easily have fitted
his fictions in the frame of the situation known from the Acts and the
other Pauline Epistles? The linguistic and other objections are by no
means insurmountable, and are overborne by the evidence of the Pauline
spirit which animates these last productions of his pen.

