---
title: Paul First Letter To Corinth
template: lesson.jade
---


**Paul’s First Letter to Corinth 29**

**Paul’s First Letter to Corinth**

Paul pays a short Visit to Corinth <sup>[<sup>1</sup>](#sdfootnote1sym)</sup>
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

We have hitherto derived such information as we possess, concerning the
proceedings of St. Paul at Ephesus, from the narrative in the Acts; but
we must now record an occurrence which St. Luke has passed over in
silence, and which we know only from a few incidental allusions in the
letters of the Apostle himself. This occurrence, which probably took
place not later than the beginning of the second year of St. Paul’s
residence at Ephesus, was a short visit which he paid to the Church at
Corinth. <sup>**[<sup>2</sup>](#sdfootnote2sym)**</sup>

If we had not possessed any direct information that such a visit had
been made, yet in itself it would have seemed highly probable that St.
Paul would not have remained three years at Ephesus without revisiting
his Corinthian converts. We have already remarked on the facility of
communication existing between these two great cities, which were united
by a continual reciprocity of commerce, and were the capitals of two
peaceful provinces. And examples of the intercourse which actually took
place between the Christians of the two Churches have occurred, both in
the case of Aquila and Priscilla, who had migrated from the one to the
other (Acts 18:18,19), and in that of Apollos, concerning whom,” when he
was disposed to pass into Achaia,”“ the brethren [at Ephesus] wrote,
exhorting the disciples [at Corinth] to receive him” (Acts 27:27).

Some of the results of this visit of Apollos to Corinth have been
noticed; he was now probably returned to Ephesus, where we know (1 Cor.
16:12) that he was remaining (and, it would seem, stationary) during the
third year of St. Paul’s residence in that capital. No doubt, on his
return, he had much to tell of the Corinthian converts to their father
in the faith, much of joy and hope, but also much of pain, to
communicate; for there can be little doubt that those tares among the
wheat, which we shall presently see in their more mature growth; had
already begun to germinate, although neither Paul had planted, nor
Apollos watered them.

One evil at least, we know, prevailed extensively, and threatened to
corrupt the whole Church of Corinth. This was nothing less than the
addiction of many Corinthian Christians to those sins of impurity which
they had practiced in the days of their Heathenism, and which disgraced
their native city, even among the Heathen. We have before mentioned the
peculiar licentiousness of manners which prevailed at Corinth. So
notorious was this, that it had actually passed into the vocabulary of
the Greek tongue; and the very word “to Corinthianize,” meant to play
the wanton; <sup>**[<sup>3</sup>](#sdfootnote3sym)**</sup> nay, the bad
reputation of the city had become proverbial, even in foreign languages,
and is immortalized by the Latin poets.

Such being the habits in which many of the Corinthian converts had been
educated, we cannot wonder that it proved most difficult to root out
immorality from the rising Church. The offenders against Christian
chastity were exceedingly numerous:; at this period; and it was
especially with the object of attempting to reform them, and to check
the growing mischief, that St. Paul now determined to visit Corinth.

He has himself described this visit as a painful one; (2 Cor. 2:1) he
went in sorrow at the tidings he had received, and when he arrived, he
found the state of things even worse than he had expected; he tells us
that it was a time of personal humiliation (2 Cor. 12:21) to himself,
occasioned by the flagrant sins of so many of his own converts; he
reminds the Corinthians, afterwards, how he had” mourned” over those who
had dishonored the name of Christ by” the uncleanness and fornication
and wantonness which they had committed.” (2 Cor. 12:21)

But in the midst of his grief he showed the greatest tenderness for the
individual offenders; he warned them of the heinous guilt which they
were incurring; he showed them its inconsistency with their Christian
calling; <sup>**[<sup>4</sup>](#sdfootnote4sym)**</sup> he reminded them
how, at their baptism, they had died to sin, and risen again unto
righteousness; but he did not at once exclude them from the Church which
they had defiled. Yet he was compelled to threaten them with this
penalty, if they persevered in the sins which had now called forth his
rebuke. He has recorded the very words which he used.” If I come again,”
he said,” I will not spare.” 2 Cor. 13:2.

It appears probable that, on this occasion, St. Paul remained but a very
short time at Corinth. When afterwards, in writing to them, he says that
he does not wish “*now* to pay them a passing visit,” he seems
<sup>**[<sup>5</sup>](#sdfootnote5sym)**</sup> to imply, that his last
visit had deserved that epithet. Moreover, had it occupied a large
portion of the “space of three years,” which he describes himself to
have spent at Ephesus (Acts 20:31), he would probably have expressed
himself differently in that part of his address to the Ephesian
presbyters; <sup>**[<sup>6</sup>](#sdfootnote6sym)**</sup> and a long
visit could scarcely have failed to furnish more allusions in the
Epistles so soon after written to Corinth. The silence of St. Luke also,
which is easily explained on the supposition of a short visit, would be
less natural had St. Paul been long absent from Ephesus, where he
appears, from the narrative in the Acts, to be stationary during all
this period.

On these grounds, we suppose that the Apostle, availing himself of the
constant maritime intercourse between the two cities, had gone by sea to
Corinth; and that he now returned to Ephesus by the same route (which
was very much shorter than that by land), after spending a few days or
weeks at Corinth.

But his censures and warnings had produced too little effect upon his
converts; his mildness had been mistaken for weakness; his hesitation in
punishing had been ascribed to a fear of the offenders; and it was not
long before he received new intelligence that the profligacy which had
infected the community was still increasing. Then it was that he felt
himself compelled to resort to harsher measures; he wrote an Epistle
(which has not been preserved to us)
<sup>**[<sup>7</sup>](#sdfootnote7sym)**</sup> in which, as we learn
from himself, he ordered the Christians of Corinth, by virtue of his
Apostolic authority,” to cease from all intercourse with fornicators.”

By this he meant, as he subsequently explained his injunctions, to
direct the exclusion of all profligates from the Church. The
Corinthians, however, either did not understand this, or (to excuse
themselves) they affected not to do so, for they asked, how it was
possible for them to abstain from all intercourse with the profligate,
unless they entirely secluded themselves from all the business of life,
which they had to transact with their Heathen neighbors. Whether the
lost Epistle contained any other topics, we cannot know with certainty;
but we may conclude with some probability that it was very short, and
directed to this” one subject;
<sup>**[<sup>8</sup>](#sdfootnote8sym)**</sup> otherwise it is not easy
to understand why it should not have been preserved together with the
two subsequent Epistles.

Soon after this short letter had been dispatched, Timothy, accompanied
by Erastus, <sup>**[<sup>9</sup>](#sdfootnote9sym)**</sup> left Ephesus
for Macedonia. St. Paul desired him, if possible, to continue his
journey to Corinth; but did not feel certain that it would be possible
for him to do so consistently with the other objects of his journey,
which probably had reference to the great collection now going on for
the poor Hebrew Christians at Jerusalem.

Meantime, some members of the household of Chloe, a distinguished
Christian family at Corinth, arrived at Ephesus; and from them St. Paul
received fuller information than he before possessed of the condition of
the Corinthian Church. The spirit of party had seized upon its members
and well nigh destroyed Christian love. We have already seen in our
general view of the divisions or the Apostolic Church, that the great
parties which then divided the Christian world had ranked themselves
under the names of different Apostles, whom they attempted to set up
against each other as rival leaders. At Corinth, as in other places,
emissaries had arrived from the Judaizers of Palestine, who boasted of
their” letters or commendation” from the metropolis of the faith; they
did not, however, attempt, as yet, to insist upon circumcision, as we
shall find them doing successfully among the simpler population of
Galatia. This would have been hopeless in a great and civilized
community like that of Corinth, imbued with Greek feelings of contempt
for what they would have deemed a barbarous superstition.

Here, therefore, the Judaizers confined themselves, in the first
instance, to personal attacks against St. Paul, whose apostleship they
denied, whoso motives they calumniated, and whose authority they
persuaded the Corinthians to repudiate. Some of them declared themselves
the followers of” Cephas,” whom the Lord Himself had selected to be the
chief Apostle; others (probably the more extreme members of the party)
boasted of their own immediate connection with Christ Himself, and their
intimacy with” the brethren of the Lord,” and especially with James, the
head of the Church at Jerusalem. The endeavors of these agitators to
undermine the influence of the Apostle of the Gentiles met with
undeserved success; and they gained over a strong party to their side.
Meanwhile, those who were still steadfast to the doctrines of St. Paul,
yet were not all unshaken in their attachment to his person: a portion
of them preferred the Alexandrian learning with which Apollos had
enforced his preaching, to the simple style of their first teacher, who
had designedly abstained, at Corinth, from anything like philosophical
argumentation. (1 Cor. 2:1 5)

This party, then, who sought to form for themselves a philosophical
Christianity, called themselves the followers of Apollos; although the
latter, for his part, evidently disclaimed the rivalry with St. Paul
which was thus implied, and even refused to revisit Corinth, (1 Cor.
16:12) lest he should seem to countenance the factious spirit of his
adherents.

It is not impossible that the Antinomian Free thinkers, whom we have
already seen to form so dangerous a portion of the Primitive Church,
attached themselves to this last named party; at any rate, they were, at
this time, one of the worst elements of evil at Corinth: they put
forward a theoretic defense of the practical immorality in which they
lived; and some of them had so lost the very foundation of Christian
faith as to deny the resurrection of the dead, and thus to adopt the
belief as well as the sensuality of their Epicurean neighbors, whose
motto was” Let us eat and drink, for to morrow we die”

A crime recently committed by one of these pretended Christians, was now
reported to St. Paul, and excited his utmost abhorrence : a member of
the Corinthian Church was openly living in incestuous intercourse with
his step mother, and that, during his father’s life; yet this audacious
offender was not excluded from the Church.

Nor were these the only evils: some Christians were showing their total
want of brotherly love by bringing vexatious actions against their
brethren in the Heathen courts of law; others were turning even the
spiritual gifts which they had received from the Holy Ghost into
occasions of vanity and display, not unaccompanied by fanatical
delusion; the decent order of Christian worship was disturbed by the
tumultuous claims of rival ministrations; women had forgotten the
modesty of their sex, and came forward, unveiled (contrary to the habit
of their country), to address the public assembly; and even the sanctity
of the Holy Communion itself was profaned by scenes of reveling and
debauch.

About the same time that all this disastrous intelligence was brought to
St. Paul by the household of Chloe, other messengers arrived from
Corinth, bearing the answer of the Church to his previous letter, of
which (as we have mentioned above) they requested an explanation; and at
the same time referring to his decision several questions which caused
dispute and difficulty.

These questions related,

**1st**, To the controversies respecting meat which had been offered to
idols;

**2nd**, To the disputes regarding celibacy and matrimony; the right of
divorce; and the perplexities which arose in the case of mixed
marriages, where one of the parties was an unbeliever:

**3rd**, To the exercise of spiritual gifts in the public assemblies of
the Church.

St. Paul hastened to reply to these questions, and at the same time to
denounce the sins which had polluted the Corinthian Church, and almost
annulled its right to the name of Christian. The letter which he was
thus led to write is addressed, not only to this metropolitan Church,
but also to the Christian communities established in other places in the
same province, which might be regarded as dependencies of that in the
capital city; hence we must infer that these Churches also had been
infected by some of the errors or vices which had prevailed at Corinth.

The letter is, in its contents, the most diversified of all St. Paul’s
Epistles; and in proportion to the variety of its topics, is the depth
of its interest for ourselves. For by it we are introduced, as it were,
behind the scenes of the Apostolic Church, and its minutest features are
revealed to us under the light of daily life. We see the picture of a
Christian congregation as it met for worship in some upper chamber, such
as the house of Aquila, or of Gaius, could furnish. We see that these
seasons of pure devotion were not unalloyed by human vanity and
excitement; yet, on the other hand, we behold the Heathen auditor
pierced to the heart by the inspired eloquence of the Christian
prophets, the secrets of his conscience laid bare to him, and himself
constrained to fall down on his face and worship God; we hear the
fervent thanksgiving echoed by the unanimous Amen; we see the
administration of the Holy Communion terminating the feast of love.

Again we become familiar with the perplexities of domestic life, the
corrupting proximity of Heathen immorality, the lingering superstition,
the rash speculation, the lawless perversion of Christian liberty; we
witness the strife of theological factions, the party names, the
sectarian animosities. We perceive the difficulty of the task imposed
upon the Apostle, who must guard from so many perils, and guide through
so many difficulties, his children in the faith, whom else he had
begotten in vain; and we learn to appreciate more fully the magnitude of
that laborious responsibility under which he describes himself as almost
ready to sink,” the care of all the Churches”

But while we rejoice that so many details of the deepest historical
interest have been preserved to us by this Epistle, let us not forget to
thank God who so inspired His Apostle, that in his answers to questions
of transitory interest he has laid down principles of eternal
obligation. <sup>**[<sup>10</sup>](#sdfootnote10sym)**</sup> Let us
trace with gratitude the providence of Him, who” out of darkness calls
up light;” by whose mercy it was provided that the unchastity of the
Corinthians should occasion the sacred laws of moral purity to be
established for ever through the Christian world; that their denial of
the resurrection should cause those words to be recorded whereon
reposes, as upon a rock that cannot be shaken, our sure and certain hope
of immortality.

First Epistle to the Corinthians <sup>[<sup>11</sup>](#sdfootnote11sym)</sup>
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

### 1 Corinthians 1

PAUL, a called Apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God, and Sosthenes
the Brother, TO THE CHURCH OF GOD AT CORINTH, hallowed in Christ Jesus,
called Saints; <sup>**[<sup>12</sup>](#sdfootnote12sym)**</sup> together
with <sup>**[<sup>13</sup>](#sdfootnote13sym)**</sup> who can upon the
name of Jesus Christ our Lord in every place which is their home and our
home also. <sup>**[<sup>14</sup>](#sdfootnote14sym)**</sup>

Grace be unto you and peace, from God our Father, and from our Lord
Jesus Christ.

I thank my God continually on your behalf, for the grace of God given
unto you in Christ Jesus. Because, in Him, you were every wise enriched;
with all the gifts of speech and knowledge, (for thus my testimony to
Christ was confirmed among you), so that you come behind no other church
in any gift; looking earnestly for the time when our Lord Jesus Christ
shall be revealed to sight.

And He also will confirm you unto the end, that you may be without
reproach at the day of our Lord Jesus Christ. For God is faithful, by
whom you were called into fellowship with His Son, Jesus Christ, our
Lord.

I exhort you brethren by the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, to shun
disputes, and have no divisions among you, but to be knit together in
the same mind, and the same judgment.
<sup>**[<sup>15</sup>](#sdfootnote15sym)**</sup> For I have been

informed concerning you, my brethren, by the members of Chloe’s
household, that there are contentions among you. I mean, that one of you
says, “I am a follower of Paul;” another, “I of Apollos;” another, “I of
Cephas;” 7 another, “I of Christ.” Is Christ divided? Was Paul crucified
for you? or were you baptized unto the name of Paul? I thank God that I
baptized none of you except Crispus and Gaius (lest anyone should say
that I baptized unto my own name); and I baptized also the household of
Stephanas; besides these I know not that I baptized any other. For
Christ sent me forth as His Apostle, not to baptize, but to publish the
Glad tidings; and that, not with wisdom of word, lest thereby the cross
of Christ should be made void. For the word of the cross,
<sup>**[<sup>16</sup>](#sdfootnote16sym)**</sup> to those in the way of
perdition, is folly; but to us in the way of salvation,
<sup>**[<sup>17</sup>](#sdfootnote17sym)**</sup> it is the power of God.
And so it is written, “I will destroy the wisdom of the wise, and bring
to nothing the understanding of the prudent.”
<sup>**[<sup>18</sup>](#sdfootnote18sym)**</sup>

Where is the Philosopher? Where is the Rabbi? Where is the reasoner of
this world? Has not God turned the world’s wisdom into folly? for when
the world had failed to gain by its wisdom the knowledge of God in the
wisdom of God, it pleased God, by the folly of our preaching, to save
those who believe. For the Jews require a sign [from heaven], and the
Greeks demand philosophy; but we proclaim a Messiah crucified, to the
Jews a stumbling block, and to the Greeks a folly; but to the called
<sup>**[<sup>19</sup>](#sdfootnote19sym)**</sup> themselves, whether
they be Jews or Greeks, Christ the power of God, and the wisdom of God.
For the folly of God is wiser than man’s wisdom, and the weakness of God
is stronger than man’s strength. For you see, brethren, how God has
called you; how few of you are wise in earthly wisdom, how few are
powerful, how few are noble,

But the world’s folly, God has chosen, to confound its wisdom; and the
world’s weakness God has chosen, to confound its strength; and the
world’s base things, and things despised, yea, things that have no
being, God has chosen, to bring to nought the things that be; that no
flesh should glory in His presence. But you are His children in Christ
Jesus, whom God sent unto us as our wisdom,
<sup>**[<sup>20</sup>](#sdfootnote20sym)**</sup> and righteousness, and
sanctification, and redemption; that it might be according as it is
written, “He that boasts, let him boast in the Lord. (Jer. 9:23,24)

### 1 Corinthians 2

So, brethren, when I myself came among you, and declared to you the
testimony of God, I came not with surpassing skill of speech or wisdom.
For no knowledge did I purpose to display among you, but the knowledge
of Jesus Christ along, and Him crucified. And in my intercourse with
you, I was filled with weakness and fear and much trembling.
<sup>**[<sup>21</sup>](#sdfootnote21sym)**</sup>

And when I proclaimed my message, I used not persuasive words of human
wisdom, but showed forth the working of God’s Spirit and power, that
your faith might have its foundation not in the wisdom of men, but in
the power of God.

Nevertheless, among those who are ripe in understanding, I speak wisdom;
albeit not the wisdom of this world, nor of its rulers, who will soon be
nought. <sup>**[<sup>22</sup>](#sdfootnote22sym)**</sup> But it is God’s
wisdom that I speak, whereof the secret is made known to His people;
<sup>**[<sup>23</sup>](#sdfootnote23sym)**</sup> even the hidden wisdom
which God ordained before the ages, that we might be glorified thereby.
But the rulers of this world knew it not; for had they known it, they
would not have crucified the Lord of Glory. But as it is written, “Eye
hath not seen, nor ear heard, neither have entered into the heart of
man, the things which God hath prepared for them that love Him.”
<sup>**[<sup>24</sup>](#sdfootnote24sym)**</sup> Yet to us God has
revealed them by His Spirit. For the Spirit fathoms all things, even the
depths of God. For who can know what belongs to man but the spirit of
man which is within him? even so none can know what belongs to God, but
the Spirit of God alone. Now we have received, not the spirit of the
world, but the Spirit which is of God; that we might understand those
things which have been freely given us by God.

These are the things whereof we speak, in words not taught by man’s
wisdom, but by the Spirit; explaining spiritual things to spiritual men.
But the natural <sup>**[<sup>25</sup>](#sdfootnote25sym)**</sup> man
rejects the teaching of God’s Spirit, for to him it is folly; and he
cannot comprehend it because it is spiritually discerned. But the
spiritual man judges all things truly, yet cannot himself be truly
judged by others. For “Who hath known the mind of the Lord that he
should instruct Him?” (Isa. 40:13, LXX) but we have the mind of the Lord
<sup>**[<sup>26</sup>](#sdfootnote26sym)**</sup> [within us].

### 1 Corinthians 3

And I, brethren, could not speak to you as spiritual men, but as carnal,
yea, as babes in Christ. I fed you with milk, and not with meat; for you
were not able to bear it; nay, you are not yet able, for you are still
carnal. For while you are divided amongst yourselves by jealousy, and
strife, and factious parties, is it not evident that you are carnal, and
walking in the ways of men? When one says,” I follow Paul,” and another”
I follow Apollos,” can you deny that you are carnal?

Who then is Paul, or who is Apollos? what are they but servants, by
whose ministration you believed? and was it not the Lord who gave to
each of them the measure of his success? I planted, Apollos watered; but
it was God who made the seed to grow.

So that he who plants is nothing, nor he who waters, but God alone who
gives the growth. But the planter and the waterer are one together; and
each will receive his own wages according to his work. For we are God’s
fellow laborers, and you are God’s husbandry. You are God’s building;
God gave me the gift of grace whereby like a skilful architect I laid a
foundation; and on this foundation another builds; but let each take
heed what he builds thereon, [‘thereon,” I say,] for other foundation
can no man lay, than that already laid, which is Jesus Christ.
<sup>**[<sup>27</sup>](#sdfootnote27sym)**</sup> But on this foundation
one may raise gold, and silver, and precious stones; another, wood, hay,
and stubble. <sup>**[<sup>28</sup>](#sdfootnote28sym)**</sup> But each
man’s work will be made manifest; for The Day
<sup>**[<sup>29</sup>](#sdfootnote29sym)**</sup> will make it known;
because that day will be revealed with fire, and the fire will test each
builder’s work. He whose building stands unharmed, shall receive payment
for his labor; he whose work is burned down, shall forfeit his reward:
yet he shall not himself be destroyed; but shall be saved as it were
through the flames.

Know ye not that you are God’s temple, and that you form a shrine
wherein God’s Spirit dwells? If any man ruin the temple of God, God
shall ruin <sup>**[<sup>30</sup>](#sdfootnote30sym)**</sup> him; for the
temple of God is holy; and holy therefore are ye.

Let none deceive himself; if any man is held wise among you in the
wisdom of this world, let him make himself a fool [in the world’s
judgment], that so he may become wise. For the wisdom of this world is
foolishness with God, as it is written, “He taketh the wise in their own
craftiness.” (Job 5:13, from the LXX) And again, “The Lord knoweth the
thoughts of the wise that they are vain.” (Psalm 94:11) Therefore let
none of you make his boast in men;
<sup>**[<sup>31</sup>](#sdfootnote31sym)**</sup> for all things are
yours; both Paul and Apollos, and Cephas, and the whole world itself;
both life and death, things present and things to come all are yours but
<sup>**[<sup>32</sup>](#sdfootnote32sym)**</sup> you are Christ’s; and
Christ is God’s.

### 1 Corinthians 4

Let us be accounted as servants of Christ, and Christ’s and stewards of
the mysteries of God.” Moreover, it is required in a steward to be found
faithful. <sup>**[<sup>33</sup>](#sdfootnote33sym)**</sup> Yet to me it
matters nothing that I be judged by you or by the doom of man; nay, I
judge not even myself. For although I know not that I am guilty of
unfaithfulness, yet this does not justify me; but I must be tried by the
judgment of the Lord. Therefore judge nothing hastily, until the coming
of the Lord; for He shall bring to light the secrets of darkness, and
make manifest the counsels of men’s hearts; and then shall each receive
his due praise from God.

But these things, brethren, I have represented under the persons of
myself and Apollos, for your sakes; that by considering us you might
learn not to think of yourselves above that which has been written, 9
and that you may cease to puff yourselves up in the cause
<sup>**[<sup>34</sup>](#sdfootnote34sym)**</sup> of one against another.
For who makes thee to differ from another? what hast thou that thou
didst not receive? and how then canst thou boast, as if thou hadst won
it for thyself? But ye forsooth have already eaten to the full [of
spiritual food], ye are already rich, ye have seated yourselves upon
your throne, and have no need of me. Would that you were indeed
enthroned, that I too might reign with you. For, I think, God has set
forth us the Apostles last of all, like criminals condemned to die, to
be gazed at in a theatre
<sup>**[<sup>35</sup>](#sdfootnote35sym)**</sup> by the whole world,
both men and angels. We for Christ’s sake are fools, while you are wise
in Christ; we are weak, while you are strong; you are honorable, while
we are outcasts; even to the present hour we bear hunger and thirst, and
nakedness and stripes, and have no certain dwelling place, and toil with
our own hands; curses we meet with blessings, persecution with patience,
railings with good works. We have been made as it were the refuse of the
earth, the off scouring of all things, unto this day. I write not thus
to reproach you, but as a father I chide the children whom I love. For
though you may have ten thousand guardians
<sup>**[<sup>36</sup>](#sdfootnote36sym)**</sup> to lead you towards the
school of Christ, you can have but one father; and it was I who begat
you in Christ Jesus, by the Glad tidings which I brought. I beseech you,
therefore, become followers of me.

For this cause I have sent to you Timotheus, my beloved son, a faithful
servant of the Lord, who shall put you in remembrance of my ways in
Christ, as I teach everywhere in all the churches. Now some have been
filled with arrogance, supposing that I am not coming to you. But I
shall be with you shortly, if the Lord will; and then I shall learn, not
the word of these boasters, but their might. For mighty deeds, not empty
words, are the tokens of God’s kingdom. What is your desire? Must I come
to you with the rod, or in love and the spirit of meekness?

### 1 Corinthians 5

It is reported that there is fornication generally among you, and such
fornication, as is not known even among the Heathen, so that one among
you has his father’s wife. And you forsooth have been puffed up when you
should have mourned, that the doer of this deed might be put away from
the midst of you.

For me being present with you in spirit, although absent in body, I have
already passed sentence, as though present, on him who has done this
thing; [and I decree] in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that you
convene an assembly, and when you, and my spirit with you, are gathered
together, with the power of our Lord Jesus Christ, that you deliver over
to Satan 3 the man who has thus sinned, for the destruction of his
fleshly lusts, that his spirit may be 6 saved in the day of the Lord
Jesus. Unseemly is your boasting; know ye not that “a little leaven
leavens the whole lump?”
<sup>**[<sup>37</sup>](#sdfootnote37sym)**</sup> Cast out therefore the
old leaven, that you may be an untainted mass, even as now
<sup>**[<sup>38</sup>](#sdfootnote38sym)**</sup> you are without taint
of leaven; for our Paschal Lamb is Christ, who was slain for us;
therefore let us keep the feast, not with the old leaven, nor the leaven
of vice and wickedness, but with the unleavened bread of purity and
truth.

I enjoined you in my letter
<sup>**[<sup>39</sup>](#sdfootnote39sym)**</sup> to keep no company with
fornicators: not that you should utterly forego all intercourse with the
men of this world who may be fornicators, or lascivious, or
extortioners, or idolaters; for so you would need to go utterly out of
the world. But my meaning was, that you should keep no company with any
man who, bearing the name of a Brother, is either a fornicator, or a
wanton, <sup>**[<sup>40</sup>](#sdfootnote40sym)**</sup> or an idolater,
or a railer, or a drunkard, or an extortioner; with such a man, I say,
you must not so much as eat. For what .need have I to judge those also
that are without? Is it not your part to judge those that are within?
But those without are for God’s judgment. “From amongst yourselves ye
shall cast out the evil one.” (Deut. 24:7)

### 1 Corinthians 6

Can there be any of you who dare to bring their private differences into
the courts of law, before the wicked and not rather bring them before
the saints? Know ye not that the saints shall judge the world? and if
the world is subjected to your judgment, are you unfit to decide the
most trifling matters? Know ye not that we shall judge angels? how much
more the affairs of this life? If, therefore, you have disputes to
settle which concern the affairs of this life, give the arbitration of
them to the very least esteemed in your Church. I speak to your shame.

Can it be that amongst you there is not so much as one man wise enough
to arbitrate between his brethren, but must brother go to law with
brother, and that in the courts of the unbelievers ? Nay, farther, you
are in fault, throughout, in having such disputes at all. Why do you not
rather submit to wrong? Why not rather suffer yourselves to be
defrauded? Nay, you are yourselves wronging and defrauding, and that
your brethren. Know ye not that wrongdoers shall not inherit the kingdom
of God? Be not deceived – neither fornicators, nor idolaters, nor
adulterers, nor self defilers, nor sodomites, nor robbers, nor wantons,
nor drunkards, nor railers, nor extortioners, shall inherit the kingdom
of God. And such were some of you; but you have washed away your stains,
you have been hallowed, you have been justified, in the name of the Lord
Jesus, and in the Spirit of our God.

All things are lawful for me.
<sup>**[<sup>41</sup>](#sdfootnote41sym)**</sup> But not all things are
good for me. Though all things are in my power, they shall not bring me
under their power. “Meat is for the belly, and the belly for meat,”
though God will soon put an end to both; but the body is not for
fornication, but for the Lord; and the Lord for the body;
<sup>**[<sup>42</sup>](#sdfootnote42sym)**</sup> and as God raised the
Lord from the grave, so He will raise us also by His mighty power.
<sup>**[<sup>43</sup>](#sdfootnote43sym)**</sup> Know ye not that your
bodies are members of Christ’s body? Shall I then take the members of
Christ, and make them the members of an harlot? God forbid. Know ye not,
that he who joins himself to an harlot becomes one body with her? For it
is said “They twain shall be one flesh.” (Gen. 2:24) But he who joins
himself to the Lord, becomes one spirit with Him. Flee fornication. The
root of sin is not in the body,
<sup>**[<sup>44</sup>](#sdfootnote44sym)**</sup> [but in the soul]; yet
the fornicator sins against his own body. Know ye not that your bodies
are temples of the Holy Spirit which dwells within you, which ye have
received from God? And you are not your own, for you were bought with a
price. <sup>**[<sup>45</sup>](#sdfootnote45sym)**</sup>Glorify God,
therefore, not in your spirit only, but in your body also, since both
are His.

### 1 Corinthians 7

As to the questions which you have asked me in your letter, this is my
answer. It is good for a man to remain unmarried. Nevertheless, to avoid
fornication, let every man have his own wife, and every woman her own
husband. Let the husband live in the intercourse of affection with his
wife, and like wise the wife with her husband. The wife has not dominion
over her own body, but the husband; and so also the husband has not
dominion over his own body, but the wife. Do not separate one from the
other, unless it be with mutual consent for a time, that you may give
yourselves without disturbance to prayer, and then return to one
another, lest, through your fleshly passions, Satan should tempt you to
sin. Yet this I say by way of permission, not of command. Nevertheless I
would that all men were as I myself am; but men have different gifts
from God, one this, another that. But to the unmarried and to the
widows, I say that it would be good for them if they should remain in
the state wherein I myself also am; yet if they are incontinent, let
them marry; for it is better to marry than to burn. To the married, not
I, but the Lord gives commandment, 3 that the wife part not from her
husband; (but if she be already parted, let her remain single, or else
be reconciled with him;) and also that the husband put not away his
wife.

But to the rest, speak I, not the Lord. If any Brother be married to an
unbelieving wife let him not put her away, if she be content to live
with him; neither let a believing wife put away an unbelieving husband
who is willing to live with her; for the unbelieving husband is hallowed
by union with his believing wife, and the unbelieving wife by union with
her believing husband; for otherwise your children would be unclean, but
now they are holy. But if the unbelieving husband or wife seeks for
separation, let them be separated: for in such cases the believing
husband or wife is not bound to remain under the yoke. But the call
whereby God has called us, is a call of peace.
<sup>**[<sup>46</sup>](#sdfootnote46sym)**</sup> For thou who art the
wife of an unbeliever, how knowest thou whether thou mayest save thy
husband? or thou who art the husband, whether thou mayest save thy wife?

Only <sup>**[<sup>47</sup>](#sdfootnote47sym)**</sup> let each man walk
in the same path which God allotted to him, wherein the Lord has called
him. This rule I give in all the churches. Thus, if any man, when he was
called, bore the mark of circumcision, let him not efface it; if any man
was uncircumcised at the time of his calling, let him not receive
circumcision. Circumcision is nothing, and uncircumcision is nothing;
but obedience to the commands of God. Let each abide in the condition
wherein he was called. Wast thou in slavery at the time of thy calling?
Care not for it. Nay, though thou have power to gain thy freedom,
<sup>**[<sup>48</sup>](#sdfootnote48sym)**</sup> rather make use of thy
condition. For the slave who has been called in the Lord is the Lord’s
freedman; and so also, the freeman who has been called, is Christ’s
slave. He has bought you all; beware lest you make yourselves the slaves
of man. <sup>**[<sup>49</sup>](#sdfootnote49sym)**</sup> Brethren, in
the state wherein he was called, let each abide with God.

Concerning your virgin daughters
<sup>**[<sup>50</sup>](#sdfootnote50sym)**</sup> I have no command from
the Lord, but I give my judgment, as one who has been moved by the
Lord’s mercy to be faithful. I think, then, that it is good, by
marriage. reason of the present necessity, for all to be unmarried. Art
thou bound to a wife? seek not separation; art thou free? seek not
marriage; yet if thou marry, thou sin not.
<sup>**[<sup>51</sup>](#sdfootnote51sym)**</sup> And if your virgin
daughters marry, they sin not; but the married will have sorrows in the
flesh, and these I would spare you.
<sup>**[<sup>52</sup>](#sdfootnote52sym)**</sup> But this I say,
brethren, the time is short;
<sup>**[<sup>53</sup>](#sdfootnote53sym)**</sup> that henceforth both
they that have wives be as though they had none; and they that weep as
though they wept not, and they that rejoice as though they rejoiced not,
and they that buy as though they possessed not, and they that use this
world as not abusing <sup>**[<sup>54</sup>](#sdfootnote54sym)**</sup>
it; for the outward show of this world is passing away. But I would have
you free from earthly care. The cares of the unmarried man are fixed
upon the Lord, and he strives to please the Lord. But the cares of the
husband are fixed upon worldly things, striving to please his wife. The
wife also has this difference
<sup>**[<sup>55</sup>](#sdfootnote55sym)**</sup> from the virgin; the
cares of the virgin are fixed upon the Lord, that she may be holy both
in body and in spirit; but the cares of the wife are fixed upon worldly
things, striving to please her husband.

Now this I say for your own profit; not that I may entangle you in a
snare; but that I may help you to serve the Lord with a seemly and
undivided service.

But if any man think that he is treating his virgin daughter in an
unseemly manner, by leaving her unmarried beyond the flower of her age,
and if need so require, let him act according to his will ; he may do so
without sin; let them marry. But he who is firm in his resolve, and is
not constrained to marry his daughter, but has the power of carrying out
his will, and has determined to keep her unmarried, does well. Thus he
who gives his daughter in marriage does well, but he who gives her not
in marriage does better.

The wife is bound by the law of wedlock so long as her husband lives;
but after his death she is free to marry whom she will; provided that
she choose one of the brethren in the Lord. Yet she is happier if she
remain a widow, in my judgment; and I think that I, no less than others,
have the Spirit of God.

### 1 Corinthians 8

As to the meats which have been sacrificed to idols, we know (for we all
have knowledge) <sup>**[<sup>56</sup>](#sdfootnote56sym)**</sup> but
knowledge puffs up, while love builds. If any man prides himself on his
knowledge, he knows nothing yet as he ought to know; but whosoever loves
God, of him God hath knowledge as to eating the meats sacrificed to
idols, we know (I say) that an idol has no true being, and that there is
no other God but one. For though there be some who are called gods,
either celestial or terrestrial, and though men worship many gods and
many lords, yet to us there is but one God, the Father, from whom are
all things, and we for Him; and one Lord Jesus Christ, by whom are all
things, and we by Him. <sup>**[<sup>57</sup>](#sdfootnote57sym)**</sup>
But” all” have not this” knowledge;” on the contrary, there are some who
still have a conscientious fear of the idol, and think the meat an
idolatrous sacrifice, so that, if they eat it, their conscience being
weak is defiled. Now our food cannot change our place in God’s sight;
with Him we gain nothing by eating, nor lose by not eating. But beware
lest, perchance, this exercise of your rights
<sup>**[<sup>58</sup>](#sdfootnote58sym)**</sup> should become a
stumbling block to the weak. For if one of them see thee, who boastest
of thy knowledge, 2 feasting in an idol’s temple, will not he be
encouraged to eat the meat offered in sacrifice, notwithstanding the
weakness of his conscience? And thus, through thy knowledge, will thy
weak brother perish, for whom Christ died. Nay, when you sin thus
against your brethren, and wound their weak conscience, you sin against
Christ. Wherefore, if my food cast a stumbling block in my brother’s
path, I will eat no flesh while the world stands, lest thereby I cause
my brother’s fall. <sup>**[<sup>59</sup>](#sdfootnote59sym)**</sup>

### 1 Corinthians 9

Is it denied that I am an apostle? Is it denied that I am free from
man’s authority? Is it denied that you are the fruits of my labor in the
Lord. If to others I an no apostle, yet at least I am such to you; for
you are yourselves the seal which stamps the reality of my apostleship,
in the Lord; this is my answer to those who question my authority. Do
they deny my right to be maintained [by my converts]? Do they deny my
right to carry a believing wife with me on my journeys, like the rest of
the apostles, and the brothers of the Lord, and Cephas? Or do they think
that I and Barnabas alone have no right to be maintained, except by the
labor of our own hands? What soldier
<sup>**[<sup>60</sup>](#sdfootnote60sym)**</sup> ever serves at his
private cost? What husbandman plants a vineyard without sharing in its
fruit? What shepherd tends a flock without partaking of their milk? Say
I this on Man’s judgment only, or says not the Law the same? Yea, in the
Law of Moses it is written “Thou shalt not muzzle the ox that treads out
the corn.” (Deut. 25:4) Is it for oxen that God is caring, or speaks he
altogether for our sake? For our sake, doubtless, it was written;
because the ploughman ought to plough, and the thresher to thresh, with
hope to share in the produce of his toil. If I have sown for you the
seed of spiritual gifts, would it be much if I were to reap some harvest
from your carnal gifts? If others share this right over you, how much
more should I ? Yet I have not used my right, but forego every claim,
lest I should by any means hinder the course of Christ’s Glad tidings.
Know ye not that they <sup>**[<sup>61</sup>](#sdfootnote61sym)**</sup>
who perform the service of the temple, live upon the revenues of the
temple, and they who minister at the altar share with it in the
sacrifices? So also the Lord commanded (Matt. 10:9,10) those who publish
the Glad tidings to be maintained thereby. But I have not exercised any
of these rights, nor do I write this that it may be practiced in my own
case. For I had rather die than suffer any man to make void my boasting.
For, although I proclaim the Glad tidings, yet this gives me no ground
of boasting; for I am compelled to do so by order of my
<sup>**[<sup>62</sup>](#sdfootnote62sym)**</sup> master. Yea, woe is me
if I proclaim it not. For were my service of my own free choice, I might
claim wages to reward my labor; but since I serve by compulsion, I am a
slave entrusted with a stewardship.
<sup>**[<sup>63</sup>](#sdfootnote63sym)**</sup>“

What then is my wage? It is to make the Glad tidings free of cost where
I carry it, that I may forego my right as an Evangelist. Therefore,
although free from the authority of all men, I made myself the slave of
all that I might gain the most. To the Jews I became as a Jew, that I
might gain the Jews; to those under the law as though I were under the
law (not that I was myself subject to the law), that I might gain those
under the law; to those without the law as one without the law (not that
I was without law before God, but under the law of Christ), that I might
gain those who were without the law. To the weak, I became weak, that I
might gain the weak. I am become all things to all men, that by all
means I might save some.

And this I do for the sake of the Glad tidings, that I myself may share
therein with those who hear me. Know ye not that in the races of the
stadium, though all run, yet but one can win the prize? (so run that you
may win) and every man who strives in the matches, trains himself by all
manner of self restraint. Yet they do it to win a fading crown,
<sup>**[<sup>64</sup>](#sdfootnote64sym)**</sup> we, a crown that cannot
fade. I, therefore, run not like the racer who is uncertain of his goal;
I fight, not as the pugilist who strikes out against the air; but I
bruise my body and force it into bondage; lest, perchance, having called
others to the contest, I should myself fail shamefully of the prize.

### 1 Corinthians 10

For I would not have you ignorant, brethren, that our forefathers all
were guarded by the cloud, and all passed safely through the sea. And
all, in the cloud, and in the sea, were baptized unto Moses. And all of
them alike ate the same spiritual food; and all drank of the same
spiritual stream; for they drank from the spiritual rock which followed
them; <sup>**[<sup>65</sup>](#sdfootnote65sym)**</sup> but that rock was
Christ. Yet most of them lost God’s favor, yea, they were struck down
and perished in the wilderness. Now, these things were shadows of our
own case, that we might learn not to lust after evil, as they lusted.
Nor be ye idolaters, as were some of them; as it is written, “The people
sat down to eat and drink, and rose up to play.” (Exo. 32:6) Neither let
us commit fornication, as some of them committed, and fell in one day
three and twenty thousand. (Num. 25:9) Neither let us try the
longsuffering of Christ, as did some of them, who were destroyed by the
serpents. (Num. 21:6) Nor murmur as some of them murmured, and were
slain by the destroyer. <sup>**[<sup>66</sup>](#sdfootnote66sym)**</sup>
Now all these things befell them as shadows of things to come; and they
were written for our warning, on whom the ends of the ages are come.
<sup>**[<sup>67</sup>](#sdfootnote67sym)**</sup> Wherefore, let him who
thinks that he stands firm, beware lest he fall. No trial has come upon
you beyond man’s power to bear; and God is faithful to His promises, and
will not suffer you to be tried beyond your strength, but will with
every trial provide the way of escape, that you may be able to sustain
it.

Wherefore, my beloved, flee from idolatry. I speak as to men of
understanding; use your own judgment upon my words. When we drink the
cup of blessing, which we bless, are we not all partakers in the blood
of Christ? When we break the bread, are we not all partakers in the body
of Christ? <sup>**[<sup>68</sup>](#sdfootnote68sym)**</sup>

For as the bread is one, so we, the many, are one body; for of that one
bread we all partake. If you look to the carnal Israel, do you not see
that those who eat of the sacrifices are in partnership with the altar?
What would I say then? that an idol has any real being? or that meat
offered to an idol is really changed thereby? Not so; but I say, that
when the heathen offer their sacrifices, “They sacrifice to demons, and
not to God.” (Deut. 32:17) and I would not have you become partners
<sup>**[<sup>69</sup>](#sdfootnote69sym)**</sup> with the demons. You
cannot drink the cup of the Lord, and the cup of demons; you cannot eat
at the table of the Lord, and at the table of demons. Would we provoke
the Lord to jealousy? Are we stronger than He?

“All things are lawful,”
<sup>**[<sup>70</sup>](#sdfootnote70sym)**</sup> but not all things are
expedient; “all things are lawful,” but not all things build up the
church. Let no man seek his own, but every man his neighbor’s good.
Whatever is sold in the market, you may eat, nor need you ask for
conscience sake whence it came: “For the earth is the Lord’s, and the
fullness thereof.” (Psalm 24:1) And if any unbeliever invites you to a
feast, and you are disposed to go, eat of all that is set before you,
asking no questions for conscience sake; but if anyone should say to
you, “This has been offered to an idol,” eat not of that dish, for the
sake of him who pointed it out, and for the sake of conscience. Thy
neighbor’s conscience, I say, not thine own; for [thou mayest truly
say]” why is my freedom condemned by the conscience of another? and if I
thankfully partake, why am I called a sinner for that which I eat with
thanksgiving? <sup>**[<sup>71</sup>](#sdfootnote71sym)**</sup>

Therefore, whether you eat or drink, or whatsoever you do, do all for
the glory of God. <sup>**[<sup>72</sup>](#sdfootnote72sym)**</sup> Give
no cause of stumbling, either to Jews or Gentiles, or to the Church of
God. For so I also strive to please all men in all things, not seeking
my own good, but the good of all,
<sup>**[<sup>73</sup>](#sdfootnote73sym)**</sup> that they may be saved.
I beseech you follow my example, as I follow the example of Christ.

### 1 Corinthians 11

I Praise you brethren, that
<sup>**[<sup>74</sup>](#sdfootnote74sym)**</sup> “you are always mindful
of my teaching, and keep unchanged the rules which I delivered to you.”
But I would have you know that Christ is the head of every man, and the
man is the head of the woman, as God is the head of Christ. If a man
should pray or prophesy <sup>**[<sup>75</sup>](#sdfootnote75sym)**</sup>
in the congregation with a veil over his head, he would bring shame upon
his head [by wearing the token of subjection]. But if a woman prays or
prophesies with her head unveiled, she brings shame upon her head, as
much as she that is shaven. I say, if she cast off her veil, let her
shave her head at once; but if it is shameful for a woman to be shorn or
shaven, let her keep a veil upon her head. For a man ought not to veil
his head, since he is the likeness of God, and the manifestation of
God’s glory. But the woman’s part is to manifest her husband’s glory.
For the man was not made from the woman, but the woman from the man. Nor
was the man created for the sake of the woman, but the woman for the
sake of the man. Therefore, the woman ought to wear a sign of subjection
upon her head, because of the angels. Nevertheless, in their fellowship
with the Lord, man and woman may not be separated the one from the
other. <sup>**[<sup>76</sup>](#sdfootnote76sym)**</sup> For as woman was
made from man, so is man also borne by woman; and all things spring from
God. Judge of this matter by your own feeling. Is it seemly for a woman
to offer prayers to God unveiled? Or does not even nature itself teach
you that long hair is a disgrace to a man, but a glory to a woman? for
her hair has been given her for a veil. But if anyone thinks to be
contentious in defense of such a custom, let him know that it is
disallowed by me, <sup>**[<sup>77</sup>](#sdfootnote77sym)**</sup> and
by all the Churches of God.

[I said that I Praised you, for keeping the rules which were delivered
to you; but while I give you this commandment I praise you not; your
solemn assemblies are for evil rather than for good. For first, I hear
that there are divisions among you, when your congregation assembles;
and this I partly believe. For there must needs be not divisions only,
but also adverse sects among you, that so the good may be tested and
made known. Moreover, when you assemble yourselves together, it is not
to eat the Lord’s Supper; for each begins to eat [what he has brought
for] his own supper, before anything has been given to others; and while
some are hungry, others are drunken.
<sup>**[<sup>78</sup>](#sdfootnote78sym)**</sup> Have you then no houses
to eat and drink in? or do you come to show contempt for the
congregation of God’s people, and to shame the poor?
<sup>**[<sup>79</sup>](#sdfootnote79sym)**</sup> What can I say to you?
Shall I praise you in this? I praise you not. For I myself received from
the Lord that which I delivered to you, that the Lord Jesus, in the
night when He was betrayed, took bread, and when He had given thanks, He
brake it, and said, “Take, eat; this is my body, which is broken for
yon: this do in remembrance of me.” In the same manner also, He took the
cup after supper, saying, “This cup ,is the new covenant in my blood:
this to ye, as often as ye drink it, in remembrance of me.” For as often
as you eat this bread, and drink this cup, you openly show forth the
Lord’s death until He shall come again. Therefore, whosoever shall eat
this bread, or drink this cup of the Lord unworthily, shall be guilty of
profaning the body and blood of the Lord. But let a man examine himself,
and so let him eat of this bread and drink of this cup. For he who eats
and drinks of it unworthily, eats and drinks judgment against himself,
not duly judging of the Lord’s body. For this cause many of you are weak
and sickly, and many sleep. For if we had duly judged ourselves, we
should not have been judged. But now that we are judged, we are
chastened by the Lord, that we may not be condemned together with the
world. Therefore, my brethren, when you are assembling to eat, wait for
one another; and if anyone is hungry, let him eat at home, lest your
meetings should bring judgment upon you. The other matters I will set in
order when I come.

### 1 Corinthians 12

Concerning those who exercise Spiritual Gifts, brethren, I would not
have you ignorant. You know that in the days of your heathenism you were
blindly led astray to worship dumb and senseless idols [by those who
pretended to gifts from heaven]. This therefore I call to your
remembrance; that no man who is inspired by the Spirit of God can say
“Jesus is accursed;” and no man can say “Jesus is the Lord,” unless he
be inspired by the Holy Spirit. Moreover, there are varieties of Gifts,
but the same Spirit gives them all; and [they are given for] various
ministrations, but all to serve the same Lord; and the working whereby
they are wrought is various, but all are wrought in all by the working
of the same God. But the gift whereby the Spirit becomes manifest, is
given to each for the profit of all. To one is given by the Spirit the
utterance of Wisdom, to another the utterance of Knowledge
<sup>**[<sup>80</sup>](#sdfootnote80sym)**</sup> according to the
working of the same Spirit. To another Faith through the same Spirit. To
another gifts of Healing through the same Spirit. To another the powers
which work Miracles; to another Prophecy; to another the discernment of
Spirits; to another varieties of Tongues; to another the Interpretation
of Tongues.

But all these gifts are wrought by the working of that one and the same
Spirit, who distributes them to each according to His will. For as the
body is one, and has many members, and as all the members, though many,
7 are one body; so also is Christ. For in the communion of one Spirit we
all were baptized into one body, whether we be Jews or Gentiles, 9
whether slaves or freemen, and were all made to drink of the same
Spirit. For the body is not one member, but many. If the foot should
say,” I am not the hand, therefore I belong not to the body,” does it
thereby sever itself from the body? Or if the ear should say,” I am not
the eye, therefore I belong not to the body,” does it thereby sever
itself from the body? If the whole body were an eye, where would be the
hearing? If the whole body were an ear, where would be the smelling? But
now God has placed the members severally in the body according to His
will. If all were one member, where would be the body? But now, though
the members are many, yet the body is one. And the eye cannot say to the
hand,” I have no need of thee;” nor again the head to the feet,” I have
no need of you.” Nay, those parts of the body which are reckoned the
feeblest are the most necessary, and those parts which we hold the least
honorable, we clothe with the more abundant honor, and the less
beautiful parts are adorned with the greater beauty; whereas the
beautiful need no adornment. But God has tempered the body together, and
given to the lowlier parts the higher honor, that there should be no
division in the body, but that all its parts should feel, one for the
other, a common sympathy. And thus, if one member suffer, every member
suffers with it; or if one member be honored, every member rejoices with
it. Now ye are together the body of Christ, and each one of you a
separate member. And God has set the members in the Church, some in one
place, and some in another: first, Apostles; secondly, Prophets;
thirdly, Teachers; afterwards :Miracles ; then gifts of Healing;
Serviceable Ministrations; gifts of Government; varieties of Tongues.
Can all be Apostles? Can all be Prophets ? Can all be Teachers? Can all
work Miracles? Have all the gifts of Healing? Do all speak with Tongues?
Can all interpret the Tongues? But I would have you delight in the best
gifts; and moreover, beyond them all, I will show you a path wherein to
walk.

### 1 Corinthians 13

**Though I speak all the tongues of men** and angels, if I have not
love, I am no better than sounding brass, or a tinkling cymbal. And
though I have the gift of prophecy, and understand all the mysteries,
and all the depths of knowledge; and though I have the fullness of
faith, so that I could remove mountains; if I have not love, I am
nothing.

And though I sell all my goods to feed the poor, and though I give my
body to be burned, <sup>[<sup>81</sup>](#sdfootnote81sym)</sup> if I
have not love, it profits me nothing. Love is long suffering; love is
kind; love envies not; love speaks no vaunts; love swells not with
vanity; love offends not by rudeness; love seeks not her own; is not
easily provoked ; bears no malice;
<sup>[<sup>82</sup>](#sdfootnote82sym)</sup> rejoices not over
<sup>[<sup>83</sup>](#sdfootnote83sym)</sup> iniquity, but rejoices in
the victory of truth; <sup>[<sup>84</sup>](#sdfootnote84sym)</sup>
foregoes all things, believes all things, hopes all things, endures all
things.

Love shall never pass away; but Prophecies shall vanish, and Tongues
shall cease, and Knowledge shall come to nought. For our Knowledge is
imperfect, and our prophesying is imperfect. But when the perfect is
come, the imperfect shall pass away. When I was a child, my words were
childish, my desires were childish, my judgments were childish; but
being grown a man, I have done with the things of childhood. So now we
see darkly, <sup>[<sup>85</sup>](#sdfootnote85sym)</sup> by a mirror,
<sup>[<sup>86</sup>](#sdfootnote86sym)</sup> but then face to face; now
I know in part, but then shall I know, even as I now am known. Yet while
other gifts shall pass away, these three, Faith, Hope, and Love, abide;
and the greatest of these is Love.

### 1 Corinthians 14

Follow earnestly after Love; yet delight in the spiritual gifts, but
especially in the gift of Prophecy. For he who speaks in a Tongue,
speaks not to men but to God, for no man understands him, but with his
spirit he utters mysteries. But he who prophesies speaks to men, and
builds them up, with exhortation and with comfort. He who speaks in a
Tongue builds up himself alone; but he who prophesies builds up the
Church. I wish that you all had the gift of Tongues, but rather that you
had the gift of Prophecy; for he who prophesies is above him who speaks
in Tongues, unless he interpret, that the Church may be built up
thereby.

Now, brethren, if when I came to you I were to speak in Tongues, what
should I profit you, unless I should [also] speak either in Revelation
or in Knowledge, either in Prophesying or in Teaching? Even if the
lifeless instruments of sound, the flute or the harp, give no
distinctness to their notes, how can we understand their music? If the
trumpet utter an uncertain note, how shall the soldier prepare himself
for the battle? So also if you utter unintelligible words with your
tongue, how can your speech be understood? you will but be speaking to
the air. Perhaps there may be as many languages in the” world [as the
Tongues in which you speak], and none of them is unmeaning. If, then, I
know not the meaning of the language, I shall be as a foreigner to him
that speaks it, and he will be accounted a foreigner by me.

Therefore, in your own case (since you delight in spiritual gifts)
strive that your abundant possession of them may build up the Church.
Therefore, let him who speaks in a Tongue, pray that he may be able to
interpret what he utters. For if I utter prayers in a Tongue, my spirit
indeed prays, but my understanding bears no fruit. What follows, then? I
will pray indeed with my spirit, but I will pray with my understanding
also; I will sing praises with my spirit, but I will sing with my
understanding also. For if thou, with thy spirit, offer thanks and
praise, how shall the Amen be said to thy thanksgiving by those
worshippers who take no part in the ministrations, while they are
ignorant of the meaning of thy words?

Thou indeed fitly offer thanksgiving, but thy neighbors are not built
up. I offer thanksgiving to God in private,
<sup>**[<sup>87</sup>](#sdfootnote87sym)**</sup> speaking in Tongues [to
Him], more than any of you. Yet in the congregation I would rather speak
five words with my understanding so as to instruct others, than ten
thousand words in a Tongue. Brethren, be not children in understanding;
but in malice be children, and in understanding be men. It is written in
the Law, “With men of other tongues and other lips will I speak unto
this people; and yet for all that they will not hear me, saith the
Lord.” So that the gift of Tongues is a sign
<sup>**[<sup>88</sup>](#sdfootnote88sym)**</sup> given rather to
unbelievers than to believers; whereas the gift of Prophecy belongs to
believers.

When, therefore, the whole congregation is assembled, if all the
speakers speak in Tongues, and if any who take no part in your
ministrations, or who are unbelievers, should enter your assembly, will
they not say that you are mad?
<sup>**[<sup>89</sup>](#sdfootnote89sym)**</sup> But if all exercise the
gift of Prophecy, then if any man who is an unbeliever, or who takes no
part in your ministrations, should enter the place of meeting, he is
convicted in conscience by every speaker, he feels himself judged by
all, and the secret depths of his heart are laid open; and so he will
fall upon his face and worship God, and report that God is in you of a
truth. What follows then, brethren? If, when you meet together, one is
prepared to sing a hymn of praise, another to exercise his gift of
Teaching, another his gift of Tongues, another to deliver a Revelation,
6 another an Interpretation; let all be so done as to build up the
Church.

If there be any who speak in Tongues, let not more than two, or at the
most three, speak [in the same assembly]; and let them speak in turn;
and let the same interpreter explain the words of all. But if there be
no interpreter, let him who speaks in Tongues keep silence in the
congregation, and speak in private to himself and God alone. Of those
who have the gift of Prophecy, let two or three speak [in each
assembly], and let the rest
<sup>**[<sup>90</sup>](#sdfootnote90sym)**</sup> judge; but if another
of them, while sitting as hearer, receives a revelation [calling him to
prophesy], let the first cease to speak. For so you can each prophesy in
turn, that all may receive teaching and exhortation; and the gift of
Prophecy does not take from the prophets the control over their own
spirits. For God is not the author of confusion, but of peace.

In your congregation, as in all the congregations of the Saints the
women must keep silence for they are not permitted to speak in public,
but to show submission, as saith also the Law. (Gen. 3:16) And if they
wish to ask any question, let them ask it of their own husbands at home;
for it is disgraceful to women to speak in the congregation. [Whence is
your claim to change the rules delivered to you ?] Was it from you that
the word of God went forth; or, are you the only Church which it has
reached? Nay, if any think that he has the gift of Prophecy, or that he
is a spiritual <sup>**[<sup>91</sup>](#sdfootnote91sym)**</sup> man, let
him acknowledge the words which I write for commands of the Lord. But if
any man refuse this acknowledgment, let him refuse it at his peril.

Therefore, brethren, delight in the gift of Prophecy, and hinder not the
gift of Tongues. And let all be done with decency and order.

### 1 Corinthians 15

Moreover, brethren, I call to your remembrance the Glad tidings which I
brought you, which also you received, wherein also you stand firm,
whereby also you are saved, if you still hold fast the words wherein I
declared it to you; unless indeed you believed in vain. For the first
thing I taught you was that which I had myself been taught, that Christ
died for our sins, according to the Scriptures;
<sup>**[<sup>92</sup>](#sdfootnote92sym)**</sup> and that He was buried,
and that He rose the third day from the dead, according to the
Scriptures; and that he was seen by Cephas, and then by The Twelve;
after that He was seen by about five hundred brethren at once, of whom
the greater part are living at this present time, but some are fallen
asleep. <sup>**[<sup>93</sup>](#sdfootnote93sym)**</sup> Next He was
seen by James, and then by all the Apostles; and last of all he was seen
by me also, who am placed among the rest as it were by an untimely
birth; for I am the least of the Apostles, and am not worthy to be
called an Apostle, because I persecuted the Church of God. But by the
grace of God, I am what I am; and His grace which was bestowed upon me
was not fruitless; but I labored more abundantly than all the rest; yet
not I, but the grace of God which was with me. So then, whether preached
by me, or them, this is what we preached, and this is what you believed.

If then this be our tidings, that Christ is risen from the dead, how is
it that some among you say, there is no resurrection of the dead? But if
there be no resurrection of the dead, then Christ is not risen; and. if
Christ be not risen, vain is the message we proclaim, and. vain the
faith with which you heard it. Moreover, we are found. guilty of false
witness against God; because we bore witness of God that He raised
Christ from the dead, whom He did not raise, if indeed the dead rise
not. For if there be no resurrection of the dead, Christ himself
<sup>**[<sup>94</sup>](#sdfootnote94sym)**</sup> is not risen. And if
Christ be not risen, your faith is vain, you are still in your sins.
Moreover, if this be so, they who have fallen asleep in Christ, perished
when they died. If in this life only we have hope in Christ, we are of
all men most miserable. But now, Christ is risen from the dead; the
first fruits <sup>**[<sup>95</sup>](#sdfootnote95sym)**</sup> of all who
sleep.

For since by man came death, by man came also the resurrection of the
dead. For as, in Adam, all men die, so, in Christ, shall all be raised
to life. But each in his own order; Christ, the first fruits; afterwards
they who are Christ’s at His appearing; finally, the end shall come,
when He shall give up His kingdom to God His Father, having destroyed
all other dominion, and authority, and power.
<sup>**[<sup>96</sup>](#sdfootnote96sym)**</sup> :For He must reign
“till He hath put all enemies under His feet.” (Psalm 110:1)

And last of His enemies, Death also shall be destroyed. For “He hath put
all things under His feet.” (Psalm 8:6) But in that saying, “All things
are put under Him,” it is manifest that God is excepted, who put all
things under Him. And when all things are made subject to Him, then
shall the Son also subject Himself to Him who made them subject, that
God may be all in all.

Again, what will become of those who cause themselves to be baptized for
the Dead, <sup>**[<sup>97</sup>](#sdfootnote97sym)**</sup> if the dead
never rise again? Why then do they submit to baptism for the dead?

And I too, why do I put my life to hazard every hour? I protest by my I
boasting (which I have [not in myself, but] in Christ Jesus our Lord) I
die daily. If I have fought (so to speak) with beasts at Ephesus, what
am I profited if the dead rise not? “Let us eat and drink, for tomorrow
we die.” (Isa. 22:13) Beware lest you be led astray; “Converse with evil
men corrupts good
manners.”<sup>**[<sup>98</sup>](#sdfootnote98sym)**</sup> Change your
drunken raveling into the sobriety of righteousness, and live no more in
sin; for some of you know not God; I speak this to your shame.

But some one will say,” How are the dead raised up? and with what body
do they come?” <sup>**[<sup>99</sup>](#sdfootnote99sym)**</sup> Thou
fool, the seed you sow is not quickened into life till it hath partaken
of death. And that which you sow has not the same body with the plant
which will spring from it, but it is mere grain, of wheat, or whatever
else it may chance to be. God gives it a body according to His will; and
to every seed the body of its own proper plant. For all flesh is not the
same flesh; [but each body is fitted to the place it fills]; the bodies
of men, and of beasts, of birds, and of fishes, differ the one from the
other.

And there are bodies which belong to heaven, and bodies which belong to
earth; but in glory the heavenly differ from the earthly. The sun is
more glorious than the moon, and the moon is more glorious than the
stars, and one star excels another in glory. So likewise is the
resurrection of the dead; [they will be clothed with a body fitted to
their lot]; it is sown in corruption, it is raised in incorruption; it
is sown in dishonor, it is raised in glory; it is sown in weakness, it
is raised in power; it is sown in a natural body, it is raised a
spiritual body; for as there are natural bodies, so there are also
spiritual bodies.

And so it is written, “The first man Adam was made a living soul,” (Gen.
2:7) the last Adam was made a life giving spirit. But the spiritual
comes not till after the natural. The first man was made of earthly
clay, the second man was the Lord from heaven. As is the earthly, such
are they also that are earthly; and as is the heavenly, such are they
also that are heavenly; and as we have borne the image of the earthly,
we shall also bear the image of the heavenly. But this I say, brethren,
that flesh and blood <sup>**[<sup>100</sup>](#sdfootnote100sym)**</sup>
cannot inherit the kingdom of God, neither can corruption inherit
incorruption. Behold, I declare to you a mystery; we shall not all
sleep, but we shall all be changed, in a moment, in the twinkling of an
eye, at the sound of the last trumpet; for the trumpet shall sound, and
the dead shall be raised incorruptible, and we shall be changed. For
this corruptible must put on incorruption, and this mortal must put on
immortality.

But when this corruptible is clothed with incorruption, and this mortal
is clothed with immortality, then shall be brought to pass the saying,
which is written, “Death is swallowed up in victory.” (Isa. 25:8) “O
death, where is thy sting? O grave, where is thy victory?” (Hosea 13:14)
The sting of death is sin, and the strength of sin is the law;
<sup>**[<sup>101</sup>](#sdfootnote101sym)**</sup> but thanks be to God,
who giveth us the victory, through Our Lord Jesus Christ.

Therefore, my beloved brethren, be ye steadfast, immovable, always
abounding in the work of the Lord; knowing that your labor is not in
vain, in the Lord.

### 1 Corinthians 16

Concerning the collection for the saints [at Jerusalem] I would have you
do as I have enjoined upon Christian the churches of Galatia. Upon the
first day of the week, let each of you set apart whatever his gains may
enable him to spare; that there may be no collections when I come. And
when I am with you, whomsoever you shall judge to be fitted for the
trust, I will furnish, with letters, and send them to carry your
benevolence to Jerusalem ; or if there shall seem" sufficient reason for
me also to go thither, they shall go with me. But I will visit you after
I have passed through Macedonia (for through Macedonia I shall pass),
and perhaps I shall remain with you, or even winter with you, that you
may forward me on my farther journey, whithersoever I go. For I do not
wish to see you now for a passing I visit; since I hope to stay some
time with you, if the Lord permit. But I shall remain at Ephesus until
Pentecost, for a door is opened to me both great and effectual; and
there are many adversaries [against whom I must contend]. If Timothy
come to you, be careful to give him no cause of fear in your intercourse
with him, for he is laboring, as I am, in the Lord’s work. Therefore,
let no man despise him, but forward him on his way in peace, that he may
come hither to me; for I expect him, and the brethren with him.

As regards the brother Apollos, I urged him much to visit you with the
brethren [who bear this letter] ; nevertheless, he was resolved not to
come to you at this time, but he will visit you at a more convenient
season.

Be watchful, stand firm in faith, be manful and stout hearted. Let all
you do be done in love.

You know, brethren, that the house of Stephanas were the first fruits of
Achaia, and that they have taken on themselves the task of ministering
to the saints. I exhort you, therefore, on your part, to show submission
towards men like these, and towards all who work laboriously with them.
I rejoice in the coming of Stephanas and Fortunatus, and Achaicus,
because they I have supplied all which you needed; for they have
lightened my spirit and yours. To such render due acknowledgment.

The Churches of Asia salute you. Aquila and Priscilla send their loving
salutation in the Lord, together with the Church which assembles at
their house. All the brethren here salute you. Salute one another with
the kiss of holiness.

The salutation of me, Paul, with my own hand. Let him who loves not the
Lord Jesus Christ be accursed. The Lord cometh.

The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you. My love be with you all
in Christ Jesus.

In the concluding part of this letter we have some indication of the
Apostle’s plans for the future. He is looking forward to a. journey
through Macedonia (16:5), to be succeeded by a visit to Corinth, and
after this he thinks it probable he may proceed to Jerusalem. In the
Acts of the Apostles the same intentions are expressed, with a stronger
purpose of going to Jerusalem (16:21), and with the additional
conviction that after passing through Macedonia and Achaia, and visiting
Palestine, he must also see Rome’. He had won many of the inhabitants of
Asia Minor and Ephesus to the faith: and now, after the prospect of
completing his charitable exertions for the poor Christians of Judea,
his spirit turns towards the accomplishment of remoter conquests. Far
from being content with his past achievements, or resting from his
incessant labors, he felt that he was under a debt of perpetual
obligation to all the Gentile world. Thus he expresses himself, soon
after this time, in the Epistle to the Roman Christians, whom he had
long ago desired to see (Rom. 1:10 15), and whom he hopes at length to
visit, now that he is on his way to Jerusalem, and is looking forward to
a still more distant and hazardous journey to Spain. The path thus dimly
traced before him, as he thought of the future at Ephesus, and made more
clearly visible, when he wrote the letter at Corinth, was made still
more evident as he proceeded on his course. Yet not without forebodings
of evil, and much discouragement, and mysterious delays, did the Apostle
advance on his courageous career. But we are anticipating many subjects
which will give a. touching interest to subsequent passages of this
history. Important events still detain us in Ephesus. Though St. Paul’s
companions had been sent before in the direction of his contemplated
journey (Acts 19:22), he still resolved to stay till Pentecost (1 Cor.
16:8). A” great door” was open to him, and there were” many
adversaries,” against whom he had yet to contend.

[1](#sdfootnote1anc) This article is from Conybeare, W. J. and Howson,
J. S, *The Life and Epistles of St. Paul, Chapter 15*

[2](#sdfootnote2anc) The occurrence of this visit is proved by the
following passages:

(1) 2 Cor. 12:14

(2) 2 Cor. 13:1, If the visit after leaving Ephesus was the third, there
must have been a second before it;

(3) 2 Cor. 12:21. He fears lest he should again be humbled on visiting
them, and again to have to mourn their sins. Hence there must have been
a former visit, in which he was thus humbled and made to mourn.

Paley in the *Horae Paulinae*, and other commentators since, have shown
that these passages (though they acknowledge their most natural meaning
to be in favor of an intermediate visit) may be explained away; in the
first two St. Paul might perhaps only have meant ‘this is the third time
I have intended to come to you;’ and in the third passage we, may take
again with come in the sense of ‘on my return.’ But we think that
no­thing but the hypothesis of an intermediate visit can explain the
following passages :

(4) 2 Cor. 2:1, “I decided not to come again in grief to you” (which is
the reading of every one of the Uncial manuscripts). Here it would be
exceedingly unnatural to join *again* with *come*; and the feeling of
this probably led to the error of the Textus Receptus.

(5) 2 Cor. 13:2 (according to the reading of the best MSS.). I have:
warned you formerly, and I now forewarn you, as when I was present the
second time, so now while I am absent, saying to those who had sinned
before that time, and to all the rest, ‘If I come again, I will not
spare.’

Against these arguments Paley sets (1st) St. Luke’s silence, which,
however, is acknowledged by all to be in­conclusive, considering that so
very many of St. Paul’s travels and adventures are left confessedly
unrecorded in the Acts. (2nd) The passage, 2 Cor. 1:15, 16, in which St.
Paul tells the Corinthians he did not wish now to give them a second
benefit; whence he argues that the visit then approaching would be his
second visit. But a more careful examination of the passage shows that
St. Paul is speaking of his original intention of paying them a double
visit, on his way to Macedonia, and on his return from :Macedonia.

[3](#sdfootnote3anc) It is so used by Aristophanes.

[4](#sdfootnote4anc) There can be no doubt that he urged upon them the
same arguments which he was afterwards obliged to repeat at I Cor. 6:15.

[5](#sdfootnote5anc) I Cor. 16:7. Yet this admits of another
explanation; for perhaps he only meant to say, “I will not *now* (at
once) come to you (by the direct route) on my way to Macedonia for a
passing visit,”

[6](#sdfootnote6anc) Wieseler, however, gets over this, by supposing
that when St. Paul mentions three years spent among his hearers, he
means to address not only the Ephesian presbyters whom he had summoned,
but also the compa­nions of his voyage (Acts 20:4) who had been with him
in Macedonia and Achaia.

[7](#sdfootnote7anc) In proof of this, see the note on I Cor. 5:9-12.
This lost Epistle must have been written *after* his second visit;
otherwise he need not have explained it in the passage referred to.

[8](#sdfootnote8anc) Probably it was in this lost letter that he gave
them notice of his intention to visit them on his way to Macedonia; for
altering which he was so much blamed by his opponents.

[9](#sdfootnote9anc) Erastus was probably the “treasurer” of the city of
Corinth, mentioned in Rom. 16:23 and 2 Tim. 4:20, and therefore was most
likely proceeding at any rate to Corinth.

[10](#sdfootnote10anc) The contrast between the short-lived interest of
the questions referred to him for solution, and the eternal principles
by which they must be solved, was brought prominently before the mind of
the Apostle himself by the Holy Spirit, under whose guidance he wrote;
and he has expressed it in those sublime words which might serve as a
motto for the whole Epistle (1 Cor. 7:29-31).

[11](#sdfootnote11anc) The date of this Epistle can be fixed with more
precision than that of any other. It gives us the means of ascertaining,
not merely the year, but even (with great probability) the month and
week, in which it was written.

(1) Apollos had been working at Corinth, and was now with St. Paul at
Ephesus (1 Cor. 1:12; 3:4, 22; 4:6; 16:12). This was the case during St.
Paul’s residence at Ephesus (Acts 19:1).

(2) He wrote during *the days of unleavened bread*, i.e. at Easter (1
Cor. 5:7, see the note on that passage), and intended to remain at
Ephesus till Pentecost (16:8, cf. 15:32). After leaving Ephesus, he
purposed to come by Macedonia to Achaia (16:5-7). This was the route he
took (Acts 10:1, 2) on leaving Ephesus after the tumult in the theatre.

(3) Aquila and Priscilla were with him at Ephesus (16:19). They had
taken up their residence at Ephesus before the visit of St. Paul (Acts
18:26).

(4) The Great Collection was going on in Achaia (16:1-3). When he wrote
to the Romans from Corinth during his three months’ visit there (Acts
20:3), the collection was completed in Macedonia and Achaia (Rom.
15:26).

(5) He hopes to go by Corinth to Jerusalem, and thence to Rome (16:4,
and 15:25-28.) Now the time when he entertained this very purpose was
towards the conclusion of his long Ephesian residence (Acts 19:21).

(6) He had sent Timothy towards Corinth (4:17), but not direct (16:10).
Now it was at the close of his Ephesian residence (Acts 19:22) that he
sent Timothy with Erastus (the Corinthian) from Ephesus to Macedonia,
which was one way to Corinth, but not the shortest.

[12](#sdfootnote12anc) The sense of the word for ‘Saints’ in the New
Testament is nearly equivalent to the modern’ Christians;’ but it would
be an anachronism so to translate it here, since (in the time of St.
Paul) the word ‘Christian’ was only used as a term of reproach. The
objection to translating it’ saints’ is, that the idea now often
conveyed by that term is different from the meaning of the Greek word as
used by St. Paul. Yet as no other English word represents it better,
either the old rendering must be retained, or an awkward periphrasis
employed. The English reader should bear in mind that St. Paul applies
the term to all members of the Church.

[13](#sdfootnote13anc) This is added to comprehend those Christians of
the Church of Achaia who were not resident at Corinth, but in the
neighboring places of the same province.

[14](#sdfootnote14anc) The Authorized Version here appears scarcely
reconcilable with the order of the Greek, though it is defended by the
opinions of Chrysostom, Billroth, Olshausen, etc. The translation of
Meyer, “in every place under their and our dominion,” seems more like a
Papal than an Apostolic rescript; and that of De Wette, “in every place
both of their and our abode,” is frigid. and adds nothing to the idea of
‘every place.’ St. Paul means to say that he feels the home of his
converts to be also his own. Both sentiment and expression are the same
as in Rom. 16:13: ‘His mother and mine.’

[15](#sdfootnote15anc) “Mind” refers to the view taken by the
understanding; “judgment” to the practical decision arrived at.

[16](#sdfootnote16anc) I.e., the tidings of a crucified Messiah.

[17](#sdfootnote17anc) For the present participle we may refer to Acts
2:47, and to 2:6, below.

[18](#sdfootnote18anc) (Isa. 29:14, not quite literally quoted from the
LXX).

[19](#sdfootnote19anc) All who make an outward profession of
Christianity are, in St. Paul’s language, the “called.” They have
received a message from God which has called them to enter into His
church.

[20](#sdfootnote20anc) Literally, “who became wisdom to use from God,”
the preposition implying “sent from.”

[21](#sdfootnote21anc) St. Paul appears, on his first coming to Corinth,
to have been suffering under great depression, perhaps caused by the
bodily malady to which he was subject (cf. 2 Cor. 12:8), perhaps by the
ill success of his efforts at Athens.

The expression “fear and trembling,” is peculiarly Pauline, being used
in four of St. Paul’s Epistles and by no other writer in the New
Testament. It does not mean “fear of personal danger,” but a “trembling
anxiety to perform a duty.” Thus, in Eph. 6:5, slaves are charged to
obey their masters thus, and this “anxious conscientiousness” is opposed
to “eye-service.”

[22](#sdfootnote22anc) Literally, “passing away into nothingness.”

[23](#sdfootnote23anc) “Wisdom in a mystery,” is a wisdom revealed to
the *initiated*, to Christians, but hidden from the rest of the world.

[24](#sdfootnote24anc) Isa. 64:4 is the nearest passage to this in the
Old Testament. The quotation is not to be found anywhere exactly.

[25](#sdfootnote25anc) Properly, man considered as endowed with the
*anima* (the living principle), as distinguished from the spiritual
impulse.

[26](#sdfootnote26anc) The best manuscripts are divided between the
readings of “Christ” and “Lord” here.

[27](#sdfootnote27anc) The MSS vary here, but the same sense is
virtually involved in all three readings, namely that the Messiahship of
Jesus was the foundation of the teaching of the Apostles.

[28](#sdfootnote28anc) The image becomes much more vivid, if we remember
the contrasted buildings of an ancient city, the sumptuous edifices of
granite and marble, with ornaments of gold and silver, on the one hand,
and the hovels of the poor on the other, with walls of wood and roof of
thatch, and interstices stuffed with straw. See the description of Rome
below, Chapter 22.

[29](#sdfootnote29anc) The Day of Christ’s coming; cf. I Thess. 5:4.

[30](#sdfootnote30anc) The verbal link is lost in the AV.

[31](#sdfootnote31anc) The meaning is “Boast not of having this man or
that as your leader; for all the Apostles, nay, all things in the
universe, are ordained by God to co-operate for your good.”

[32](#sdfootnote32anc) All things work together for the good of
Christians; all things conspire to do them service; but their work is to
do Christ’s service, even ad He Himself came to do the will of His
Father.

[33](#sdfootnote33anc) Or rather, “Inquiry is made into a steward’s
conduct in order that he may be proved faithful.”

[34](#sdfootnote34anc) St. Paul probably means “in the cause of your
party leaders;” but speaks with intentional indistinctness.

[35](#sdfootnote35anc) Literally, because we have been made a theatrical
spectacle. Compare Heb. 10:33. The spectacle to which St. Paul here
alludes was common in those times. Criminals condemned to death were
exhibited for the amusement of the populace on the arena of the
amphitheatre, and forced to fight with wild beasts, or to slay one
another as gladiators. These criminals were exhibited at the end of the
spectacle as an exciting termination to the entertainment (“set forth
last of all”). So Tertullian paraphrases the passage, *Nus Deus
Apostolos novissimos elegit velut bestiarios*.

[36](#sdfootnote36anc) This is the same word used in Gal 3:24 referring
to “The guardian slave who led the child to school”

[37](#sdfootnote37anc) The same proverb is quoted in Gal. 5:9.

[38](#sdfootnote38anc) In spite of the opinion of some eminent modem
commentators, which is countenanced by Chrysostom, we must adhere to the
interpretation which considers these words as written at the Paschal
season, and suggested by it. The words *leaven*, *lump*, *Paschal Lamb*,
and *feast* all agree most naturally with this view. It has been
objected, that St. Paul would not address the Corinthians as engaged in
a feast which he, at Ephesus, was celebrating; because it would be over
before his letter could reach them. Anyone who has ever written a
birthday letter to a friend in India will see the weakness of this
objection. It has also been urged that he would not address a mixed
church of Jews and Gentiles as engaged in the celebration of a Jewish
feast. Those who urge this objection must have forgotten that St. Paul
addresses the Galatians (undoubtedly a mixed church) as if they had all
been formerly idolaters (Gal. 4:8); and addresses the Romans, sometimes
as if they were all Jews (Rom. 7:1), sometimes as if they were Gentiles
(Rom. 11:18). If we take ‘as ye are unleavened’ in a metaphorical sense,
it is scarcely consistent with the previous ‘cast out the old leaven;’
for the passage would then amount to saying, ‘Be free from leaven
(metaphorically) as you are free from leaven (metaphorically) ;’
whereas, on the other view, St. Paul says, ‘Be free from leaven
(metaphorically) as you are free from leaven (literally).’ There seems
no difficulty in supposing that the Gentile Christians joined with the
Jewish Christians in celebrating the Paschal feast after the Jewish
manner, at least to the extent of abstaining from leaven in the
love-feasts. And we see that St. Paul still observed the ‘days of
unleavened bread’ at this period of his life, from Acts 20:6. Also, from
what follows, we perceive how naturally this greatest of Jewish feasts
changed into the greatest of Christian festivals.

[39](#sdfootnote39anc) Literally, ‘I wrote to you in the letter,’ viz.
the letter which I last wrote, or the letter to which you refer in your
questions; for they had probably mentioned their perplexity about this
direction in it. So in 2 Cor. 7:8 the present letter (1 Cor.) is
referred to in the same phrase (I grieved you in the letter). There are
two decisive reasons why these words must refer to a previous letter,
not to the letter St. Paul is actually writing. (1.) No such direction
as ‘Keep no company with fornicators’ occurs in what has gone before.
(2.) If St. Paul had meant to say ‘1 have just written,’ he could not
have added the words ‘in the letter,’ which would have been then worse
than superfluous. Prof. Stanley (who has recently supported the view
here opposed) urges that the aorist might be used of the present epistle
as at I Cor. 9:15, which is obviously true. He also urges that ‘the
letter’ may sometimes refer to the present letter; which may also be
admitted in cases where the letter is referred to as a whole in its
postscript.; e.g. ‘I Tertius, who wrote the letter’ (Rom. 16:22). ‘I
charge you that the letter be read’ (1 Thess. 5:27). ‘When the letter
has been read among you, cause it to be read at Laodicea’ (Col. 4:16).
But none of these instances gives any support to the view that a writer
could refer to his own words, just uttered, by such a phrase as ‘I wrote
to you in the letter.’ We are forced, therefore, to conclude that these
words refer to a preceding letter, which has not been preserved. And
this view receives a strong confirmation from the words of St. Paul’s
Corinthian opponents (spoken before 2 Cor. was written): ‘His letters
are weighty,’ etc. (2 Cor. 10:10).

[40](#sdfootnote40anc) The Greek word has the meaning of a concupiscent
man in some passages of St. Paul’s writings. Compare Eph. 5:5 (where it
is coupled with *unclean*). So the corresponding substantive, in St.
Paul, almost. invariably means lasciviousness. See Eph. 4:19, 5:3, and
Col. 3:5. The only places where the word is used by St. Paul in the
sense of *covetousness* are 2 Cor. 9:5, and I Thess. 2:5, in the latter
of which passages the other meaning would not be inadmissible. How the
word contracted its Pauline meaning may be inferred from the similar use
of concupiscence in English. Since the above was first published, Prof.
Stanley and Prof. Jowett have both expressed their concurrence in this
rendering of the word.

[41](#sdfootnote41anc) See the explanation of this in Chapter 13; and
compare (for the true side of the phrase) Gal. 5:23, ‘Against such there
is no law.’ Probably St. Paul had used the very words ‘All things are
lawful for me’ in this true sense, and the immoral party at Corinth had
caught them up, and used them as their watchword. It is also probable
that this fact was mentioned in the letter which St. Paul had just
received from Corinth (1 Cor. 7:1). Also see chapter 8:1 below. From
what follows it is evident that these Corinthian freethinkers argued
that the existence of bodily appetites proved the lawfulness of their
gratification.

[42](#sdfootnote42anc) The body is for the Lord Jesus, to be consecrated
by His indwelling to His service; and the Lord Jesus is for the body, to
consecrate it by dwelling therein in the person of His Spirit.

[43](#sdfootnote43anc) St.. Paul’s argument here is that sins of
unchastity, though bodily acts, yet injure a part of our nature (compare
the phrase ‘spiritual body,’ I Cor. 15:11) which will not be destroyed
by death, and which is closely connected with our moral well-being. And
it is a fact no less certain than mysterious, that moral and spiritual
ruin is caused by such sins, which human wisdom (when untaught by
Revelation) held to be actions as blameless as eating and drinking.

[44](#sdfootnote44anc) Literally, “every sin which a man commits is
without (external to) the body.” The Corinthian freethinkers probably
used this argument also; and perhaps availed themselves of our Lord’s
words, Mark 7:18: ’Do ye not perceive that whatsoever thing from without
enters into the man, it cannot defile him, because it enters not into
his heart.

[45](#sdfootnote45anc) The “price” is the blood of Christ. Compare Acts
20:28 and Col. 1:14.

[46](#sdfootnote46anc) The inference is, “therefore, the profession of
Christianity ought not to lead the believer to quarrel with the
unbelieving members of his family.”

[47](#sdfootnote47anc) Literally, “only, as God allotted to each, as the
Lord has called each, so let him walk.”

[48](#sdfootnote48anc) The Greek here is ambiguous, and might be so
rendered as to give directly opposite precepts; but the version given in
the text (which is that advocated by Chrysostom, Meyer, and De Wette)
agrees best with the order of the Greek words, and also with the
context. We must remember, with regard to this and other precepts here
given, that they were given under the immediate anticipation of our
Lord’s coming.

[49](#sdfootnote49anc) Alluding to their servile adherence to part
leaders. Compare 2 Cor. 11:20.

[50](#sdfootnote50anc) We cannot help remarking, that the manner in
which a recent infidel writer has spoken of this passage, is one of the
most striking proofs how far a candid and acute mind may be warped by a
strong bias. In this case the desire of the writer is to disparage the
moral teaching of Christianity; and he brings forward this passage to
prove his case, and blames St. Paul because he assumes these Corinthian
daughters to be disposable in marriage at the will of their father; as
if any other assumption had been possible, in the case of Greek or
Jewish daughters in that age. We must suppose that this writer would (on
the same grounds) require a modern missionary to Persia to preach the
absolute incompatibility of despotic government with sound morality.

[51](#sdfootnote51anc) Literally, “though thou shalt have married, thou
hast not sinned;” the aorist used for the perfect, as constantly by St.
Paul.

[52](#sdfootnote52anc) “I” is emphatic, *I, if you followed my advice*,
also observe the *present, “I am sparing you*[by this advice],” or, in
other words, *I would spare you.*

[53](#sdfootnote53anc) We adopt Lachmann’s reading, “The object of this
contraction of your earthly life is that you may henceforth set your
affections on things above.

[54](#sdfootnote54anc) Literally, the verb appears to mean *to use up*,
as distinguished from *to use*. Compare 9:18. It thus acquired the sense
of *to abuse*, in which it is sometimes employed by Demosthenes and by
the grammarians.

[55](#sdfootnote55anc) The reading of Lachmann makes a considerable
difference in the translation, which would thus run: ‘The husband
strives to please his wife, and is divided [in mind]. Both the unmarried
wife [i.e. the. widow] and the virgin care for the things of the Lord,’
&c. This reading gives a more natural sense to ‘divided’ (cf. 1:13, so
Stanley); but on the other hand, the use of ‘unmarried wife’ for widow
is unprecedented; and in this very chapter (verse 8) the word widows is
opposed to unmarried.

[56](#sdfootnote56anc) It is necessary, for the understanding of this
Epistle, that we should remember that it is an answer to a letter
received from the Corinthian Church (1 Cor. 7:1) and therefore
constantly alludes to topics in that letter. it seems probable, from the
way in which they are introduced, that these words ‘We all have
knowledge,’ are quoted from that letter.

[57](#sdfootnote57anc) That is, by whom the life of all things, and our
life also, is originated and sustained. So Col. 1”16: ‘By Him and for
Him were all created, and in Him all things subsist;’ where it should be
remarked that the ‘for Him’ is predicated of the Son, as in the present
passage of the Father. Both passages show how fully St. Paul taught the
doctrine of the Logos.

[58](#sdfootnote58anc) This liberty of yours. Observe again the
reference to the language of the self-styled Pauline party at Corinth.
Compare’ all things are lawful for me ‘(6:12). The decrees of the
Council of Jerusalem’ might seem to have a direct bearing on the
question discussed by St. Paul in this passage; but he does not refer to
them as deciding the points in dispute, either here or elsewhere.
Probably the reason of this is, that the decrees were meant only to be
of temporary application; and in their terms they applied originally
only to the churches of Syria and Cilicia (see Acts 15:23; also Chapter
7.).

[59](#sdfootnote59anc) The whole of this 8<sup>th</sup> chapter is
parallel to Romans 14.

[60](#sdfootnote60anc) He means to say that to have this right of
maintenance, a man need not be an Apostle.

[61](#sdfootnote61anc) Numbers 7 and Deut. 18\>

[62](#sdfootnote62anc) “Necessity” here is the compulsion exercised by a
master over a slave. In calling his service compulsory, St. Paul refers
to the miraculous character of his conversion.

[63](#sdfootnote63anc) This “stewardship” consisted in dispensing his
Master’s goods to his fellow-slaves.

[64](#sdfootnote64anc) This was the crown made of the leaves of the
pine, groves of which surrounded the Isthmian Stadium: the same tree
still grows plentifully on the Isthmus of Corinth. It was the prize of
the great Isthmian games. Throughout the passage St. Paul alludes to
these contests, which were so dear to the pride and patriotism of the
Corinthians. Compare also 2 Tim. 2:5. And see the beginning of Chapter
20 on the same subject.

[65](#sdfootnote65anc) St. Paul’s meaning is, that, under the
allegorical representation of the Manna, the Water, and the Rock, are
shadowed forth spiritual realities: for the Rock is Christ, the only
source of living water (John 4), and the Manna also is Christ, the true
bread from Heaven (John 6).

[66](#sdfootnote66anc) See Num. 16:41. The murmuring of the Corinthians
against the Apostle is compared to the murmuring of Korah against Moses.

[67](#sdfootnote67anc) The coming of Christ was the “end of the ages,”
i.e. the commencement of a new period of the world’s existence. So
nearly the same phrase is used in Heb. 9:26. A similar expression occurs
five times in St. Matthew, signifying *the coming of Christ to
judgment*.

[68](#sdfootnote68anc) Literally, *The cup of blessing which we bless,
is it not a common participation in the blood of Christ/ The bread which
we break, is it not a common participation in the body of Christ?*

[69](#sdfootnote69anc) This is addressed to those who were in the habit
of accepting invitations to feasts celebrated in the temples of heathen
gods, “sitting in the idol’s temple” (8:10). These feasts were, in fact,
acts of idolatrous worship; the wine was poured in libation to the gods
(“the cup of demons”, verse 21), and the feast was given in honor of the
gods.

[70](#sdfootnote70anc) See 6:12 and note.

[71](#sdfootnote71anc) Compare Rom 14:16: “Let not your good be evil
spoken of.” Here again the hypothesis is that St. Paul is quoting from
the letter of the Corinthians removes all difficulty.

[72](#sdfootnote72anc) i.e. *that the glory of God may be manifested to
men.*

[73](#sdfootnote73anc) The phrase denotes not *many*, but *the many, the
whole mass of mankind*.

[74](#sdfootnote74anc) This statement was probably made in the letter
sent by the Corinthian Church to St. Paul.

[75](#sdfootnote75anc) It appears from this passage that the Tallith
which the Jews put over their heads when they enter their synagogues was
in the apostolic age removed by them when they officiated in the public
worship. Otherwise, St. Paul could not, while writing to a church
containing so many born again Jews as the Corinthian, assume it as
evidently disgraceful to a man to officiate in the congregation with
veiled head. It is true that the Greek practice was to keep the head
uncovered at their religious rites, but this custom would not have
affected the Corinthian synagogue, nor have influences the feelings of
its members.

[76](#sdfootnote76anc) In their relation to Christ, man and woman are
not to be severed the one from the other. Compare Gal. 3:28. St. Paul
means to say that the distinction between the sexes is one which only
belongs to this life.

[77](#sdfootnote77anc) Literally, *that neither I, nor the churches of
God, admit of such a custom.*

[78](#sdfootnote78anc) For the explanation of this, see Chapter 13. It
should be observed that a common meal, to which each of the guests
contributed his own share of the provisions, was a form of entertainment
of frequent occurrence among the Greeks, and known by the name of
**eranos**.

[79](#sdfootnote79anc) Literally, *Those who have no houses to eat in*,
and who therefore ought to have received their portion at the
love-feasts from their wealthier brethren.

[80](#sdfootnote80anc) *Knowledge* (**gnosis**) is the term used
throughout this epistle for *a deep insight into divine truth*; *Wisdom*
is a more general term, but here (as being opposed to **gnosis**)
probably means *practical wisdom**.***

[81](#sdfootnote81anc) Some MSS have “give my body that I may boast,”
which gives a satisfactory sense.

[82](#sdfootnote82anc) Literally, *does not reckon the evil [against the
evildoer]*. Compare 2 Cor. 5:19, “not reckoning their sins.” The
Authorized Version here, “thinketh no evil,” is so beautiful that one
cannot but wish it had been a correct translation. The same disposition,
however, is implied by the “believes all things” below.

[83](#sdfootnote83anc) This verb sometimes means *to rejoice in the
misfortune*of another, and the characteristic of love here mentioned may
bean that it does not exult in the punishment of iniquity; or may simply
mean that it does not delight in the contemplation of wickedness.

[84](#sdfootnote84anc) Literally, *rejoices when the Truth rejoices*.

[85](#sdfootnote85anc) Literally, *in an enigma*. Thus we see God in
nature, while even revelation only shows us His reflected likeness.
There is, no doubt, an allusion to Numbers 12:8.

[86](#sdfootnote86anc) Not *through a glass*, but *by means of a
mirror.*

[87](#sdfootnote87anc) This is evidently the meaning of the verse.
Compare verse 2, “He who speaks in a tongue speaks not to himself but to
God,” and verse 28, “Let him speak in private to himself and God alone.”

[88](#sdfootnote88anc) That is, a condemnatory sign.

[89](#sdfootnote89anc) We must not be led, from any apparent analogy, to
confound the exercise of the gift of Tongues in the primitive Church
with modern exhibitions of fanaticism, which bear a superficial
resemblance to it. We must remember that such modern pretensions to this
gift must of course resemble the manifestations of the original gift in
external features, because these -very features have been the objects of
intentional imitation. If, however, the inarticulate utterances of
ecstatic joy are followed (as they were in some of Wesley’s converts) by
a life of devoted holiness, we should hesitate to say that they might
not hear some analogy to those of the Corinthian Christians.

[90](#sdfootnote90anc) i.e. let the rest of the prophets judge whether
those who stand up to exercise the gift have really received it. This is
parallel to the direction in I Thess. 5:21.

[91](#sdfootnote91anc) “Spiritual,” the epithet on which the part of
Apollos (the ultra-Pauline party) especially prided themselves.

[92](#sdfootnote92anc) So our Lord quotes Isa. 53:12, in Luke 22:37.

[93](#sdfootnote93anc) Can we imagine it possible that St. Paul should
have said this without knowing it to be true? or without himself having
seen some of these , five hundred brethren,’ of whom the ‘greater part’
were alive when he wrote these words? The skeptical (but candid and
honest) De Wette acknowledges this testimony as conclusive.

[94](#sdfootnote94anc) This argument is founded on the union between
Christ and His members; they so share His life, that because He lives
forever, they must live also, if we deny their immortality, we deny His.

[95](#sdfootnote95anc) On the second day of the feast of Passover a
sheaf of ripe corn was offered upon the altar as a consecration of the
whole harvest. Till this was done it was considered unlawful to begin
reaping. See Lev. 23:10, 11. The metaphor there is, “as the single sheaf
of first fruits represents and consecrates all the harvest, so Christ’s
resurrection represents and involves that of all who sleep in Him.”

[96](#sdfootnote96anc) Compare Col. 2:15 and Eph. 1:21.

[97](#sdfootnote97anc) The only meaning which the Greek seems to admit
here is a reference to the practice of submitting to baptism instead of
some person who had died unbaptized. Yet this explanation is liable to
very great difficulties. (1) How strange that St. Paul should refer to
such a superstition without rebuking it? Perhaps, however, he may have
censured it in a former letter, and now only refers to it as an
*argumentum ad homines*. It has, indeed, been alleged that the present
mention of it implies a censure; that this is far from evident. (2) It
such a practice did exist in the Apostolic Church, how can we account
for its being discontinued in the period which followed, when a magical
efficacy was more and more ascribed to the material act of baptism? Yet
the practice was never adopted except by some obscure sects of Gnostics,
who seem to have founded their custom on this very passage.

The explanations which have been adopted to avoid the difficulty, such
as “over the graves of the dead,” or “in the name of the dead (meaning
Christ),” etc, are all inadmissible, as being contrary to the analogy of
the language. On the whole, therefore, the passage must be considered to
admit of no satisfactory explanation. It alludes to some practice of the
Corinthians which has not been recorded elsewhere, and of which every
other trace has perished.

[98](#sdfootnote98anc) St. Paul here quotes a line from *The Thais*, a
comedy of Menander’s. The line had probably passed into a proverbial
expression. We from this passage that the free-thinking party at Corinth
joined immoral practices with their licentious doctrine; and that they
were corrupted by the evil example of their heathen neighbors.

[99](#sdfootnote99anc) The form of this objection is conclusive against
the hypothesis of those who suppose that these Corinthians only
disbelieved the Resurrection of the body; and that they believed the
Resurrection of the dead. St. Paul asserts the Resurrection of the dead;
to which they reply,’ How can the dead rise to life again, when their
body has perished? ’ This objection he proceeds to answer, by showing
that individual existence may continue, without the continuance of the
material body.

[100](#sdfootnote100anc) The importance of the subject justifies our
quoting at some length the admirable remarks of Dr. Burton (formerly
Regius Professor of Divinity at Oxford) on this passage, in the hope
that his high reputation for learning and for unblemished orthodoxy may
lead some persons to reconsider the loose and unscriptural language
which they are in the habit of using. After regretting that some of the
early Fathers have (when treating of the Resurrection of the Body)
appeared to contradict these words of St. Paul, Dr. Burton continues as
follows:

“It is nowhere asserted in the New Testament that we shall rise again
*with our bodies*. Unless a man will say that the stalk, the blade, and
the ear of corn are actually the same thing with the single grain which
is put into the ground, he cannot quote St. Paul as saying that we shall
rise again with the same bodies; or at least he must allow that the
future body may only be like to the present one, inasmuch as both come
under the same genus, i.e. we speak of human *bodies*, and we speak of
heavenly *bodies*. But St. Paul’s words do not warrant us in saying that
the resemblance between the present and future body will be greater than
between a man and a star, or between a bird and a fish. Nothing can be
plainer than the expression which he uses in the first of these two
analogies, *Thou sowest not that body that shall be* (15:37). He says
also with equal plainness, of the body, *It is sown a natural body; it
is raised a spiritual body; there is a natural body, and there is a
spiritual body* (15:44). These words require to be examined closely, and
involve remotely a deep metaphysical question. In common language, the
terms *Body* and *Spirit* are accustomed to be opposed, and are used to
represent two things which are totally distinct. But St. Paul here
brings the two expressions together, and speaks of a *spiritual body*.
St. Paul, therefore did not oppose *Body* to *Spirit*; and though the
looseness of modern language may allow us to do so, and yet to be
correct in our ideas it may save some confusion if we consider *Spirit*
as opposed to *Matter*, and if we take *Body* to be a generic term,
which comprises both. A *body* therefore, in the language of St. Paul,
is something which has a distinct individual existence…

“St. Paul tells us that every individual, when he rises again, will have
a spiritual body; but the remarks which I have made may show how
different is the idea conveyed by these words from the notions which
some persons entertain, that we shall rise again with the *same
identical body*. St. Paul appears effectually to preclude this notion,
when he says, *Flesh and blood cannot inherit the kingdom of God
(15:30).”* Burton’s *Lectures*, pp. 429-431.

[101](#sdfootnote101anc) Why is the law called “the strength of sin”?
Because the Law of Duty, being acknowledged, gives to sin its power to
wound the conscience; in fact, a moral law of precepts and penalties
announces the fatal consequences of sin, without giving us any power on
conquering sin. Compare Romans 7:7-11.

