---
title: "Paul - Letter to the Romans"
pdf: "paul_lettertoromans.pdf"
description: "narrative surrounding Paul's writing his epistle to the Romans, from Corinth, prior to his departure for Judea; by Conybeare and Howson, along with their translation of the letter."
tableOfContents: true
template: topic.jade
---

It was probably about the same time when St. Paul dispatched to Ephesus
the messengers who bore his energetic remonstrance to the Galatians,
that he was called upon to inflict the punishment which he had
threatened upon those obstinate offenders who still defied his censures
at Corinth. We have already seen that these were divided into two
classes: the larger consisted of those who justified their immoral
practice by antinomian <sup>**[<sup>2</sup>](#sdfootnote2sym)**</sup>
doctrine, and, styling themselves ‘the Spiritual,’ considered the
outward restrictions of morality as mere carnal ordinances, from which
they were emancipated; the other and smaller (but more obstinate and
violent) class, who had been more recently formed into a party by
emissaries from Palestine, were the extreme Judaizers, who were taught
to look on Paul as a heretic, and to deny his Apostleship. Although the
principles of these two parties differed so widely, yet they both agreed
in repudiating the authority of St. Paul; and, apparently, the former
party gladly availed themselves of the calumnies of the Judaizing
propagandists, and readily listened to their denial of Paul’s divine
commission; while the Judaizers, on their part, would foster any
opposition to the Apostle of the Gentiles, from whatever quarter it
might arise.

But now the time was come when the peace and purity of the Corinthian
Church was to be no longer destroyed (at least openly) by either of
these parties. St. Paul’s first duty was to silence and shame his
leading opponents, by proving the reality of his Apostleship, which they
denied. This he could only do by exhibiting ‘the signs of an Apostle,’
which consisted, as he himself informs us, mainly in the display of
miraculous powers (2 Cor. 12:12). The present was a crisis which
required such an appeal to the direct judgment of God, who could alone
decide between conflicting claimants to a Divine commission.

It was a contest like that between Elijah and the prophets of Baal. St.
Paul had already in his absence professed his readiness to stake the
truth of his claims on this issue (2 Cor. 10:8, and 13:3 6) ; and we may
be sure that now, when he was present, he did not shrink from the trial.
And, doubtless, God, who had sent him forth, wrought such miracles by
his agency as sufficed to convince or to silence the gainsayers. Perhaps
the Judaizing emissaries from Palestine had already left Corinth after
fulfilling their mission by founding an anti Pauline party there

If they had remained, they must now have been driven to retreat in shame
and confusion. All other opposition was quelled likewise, and the whole
Church of Corinth were constrained to confess that God was on the side
of Paul. Now, therefore, that’ their obedience was complete,’ the
painful task remained of ‘punishing all the disobedient’ (2 Cor. 10:6).
It was not enough that those who had so often offended and so often been
pardoned before, should now merely profess once more a repentance which
was only the offspring of fear or of hypocrisy; unless they were willing
to give proof of their sincerity by renouncing their guilty indulgences.
They had long infected the Church by their immorality; they were not
merely evil themselves, but they were doing harm to others, and causing
the name of Christ to be blasphemed among the heathen.

It was necessary that the salt which had lost its savor should be cast
out, lest its putrescence should spread to that which still retained its
purity (2 Cor. 12:21).

St. Paul no longer hesitated to stand between the living and the dead,
that the plague might be stayed.’ We know, from his own description (1
Cor. 5:3 5), the very form and manner of the punishment inflicted. A
solemn assembly of the Church was convened; the presence and power of
the Lord Jesus Christ was especially invoked; the cases of the worst
offenders were separately considered, and those whose sins required so
heavy a. punishment were publicly cast out of the Church, and (in the
awful phraseology of Scripture) delivered over to Satan.

Yet we must not suppose that even in such extreme cases the object of
the sentence was to consign the criminal to final reprobation. On the
contrary, the purpose of this excommunication was so to work on the
offender’s mind as to bring him to sincere repentance, ‘that his spirit
might be saved in the day of the Lord Jesus.’ (1 Cor. 5:5) If it had
this happy effect, and if he manifested true contrition, he was restored
(as we have already seen in the case of the incestuous person
<sup>**[<sup>3</sup>](#sdfootnote3sym)**</sup>) to the love of the
brethren and the communion of the Church.

##### Purification of the Corinthian Church

We should naturally be glad to know whether the pacification and
purification of the Corinthian Church thus effected was permanent; or
whether the evils which were so deeply rooted, sprang up again after St.
Paul’s departure. On this point Scripture gives us no further
information, nor can we find any mention of this Church (which has
hitherto occupied so large a space in our narrative) after the date of
the present chapter, either in the Acts or the Epistles.

Such silence seems, so far as it goes, of favorable augury. And the
subsequent testimony of Clement (the ‘fellow laborer’ of Paul, mentioned
Phil. 4:3) confirms this interpretation of it. He speaks (evidently from
his own personal experience) of the impression produced upon every
stranger who visited the Church of Corinth, by their exemplary conduct;
and specifies particularly their possession of the virtues most opposite
to their former faults. Thus, he says that they were distinguished for
the ripeness and soundness of their knowledge in contrast to the unsound
and false pretence of knowledge for which they were rebuked by St. Paul.

Again, he praises the pure and blameless lives of their ’women; which
must therefore have been greatly changed since the time when
fornication, wantonness, and impurity (2 Cor. xii. 21) were the
characteristics of their society. But especially he commends them for
their entire freedom from faction and party spirit, which had formerly
been so conspicuous among their faults. Perhaps the picture which he
draws of this golden age of Corinth may be too favorably colored, as a
contrast to the state of things which he deplored when he wrote. Yet we
may believe it substantially true, and may therefore hope that some of
the worst evils were permanently corrected; more particularly the
impurity and licentiousness which had hitherto been the most flagrant of
their vices.

Their tendency to party spirit, however (so characteristic of the Greek
temper), was not cured; on the contrary, it blazed forth again with
greater fury than ever, some years after the death of St. Paul. Their
dissensions were the occasion of the letter of Clement already
mentioned; he wrote in the hope of appeasing a violent and long
continued schism which had arisen (like their earlier divisions) from
their being ‘puffed up in the cause of one against another.’ (1 Cor.
4:6) He rebukes them for their envy, strife, and party spirit; accuses
them of being devoted to the cause of their party leaders rather than to
the cause of God; and declares that their divisions were rending asunder
the body of Christ, and casting a stumbling block in the way of many.

This is the last account which we have of the Corinthian Church in the
Apostolic age; so that the curtain falls upon a scene of unchristian
strife, too much like that upon which it rose. Yet, though this
besetting sin was still unsubdued, the character of the Church, as a
whole, was much improved since the days when some of them denied the
resurrection, and others maintained their right to practice unchastity.

St. Paul continued three months (Acts 20:3) resident at Corinth; or, at
least, he made that city his headquarters during this period. Probably
he made excursions thence to Athens and other neighboring Churches,
which (as we know) he had established at his first visit throughout all
the region of Achaia, and which, perhaps, needed his presence, his
exhortations, and his correction, no less than the metropolitan Church.
Meanwhile, he was employed in completing that great collection for the
Christians of Palestine, upon which we have seen him so long engaged.
The Christians of Achaia from whose comparative wealth much seems to
have been expected, had already prepared their contributions, by laying
aside something for the fund on the first day of every week; (1 Cor.
16:2) and, as this had been going on for more than a year,
<sup>**[<sup>4</sup>](#sdfootnote4sym)**</sup> the sum laid by must have
been considerable. This was now collected from the individual
contributors, and entrusted to certain treasurers elected by the whole
Church, who were to carry it to Jerusalem in company with St. Paul.

##### Phoebe’s Journey to Rome

While the Apostle was preparing for this journey, destined to be so
eventful, one of his converts was also departing from Corinth, in an
opposite direction, charged with a commission which has immortalized her
name. This was Phoebe, a Christian matron resident at Cenchrea, the
eastern port of Corinth. She was a widow of consideration and wealth,
who acted as one of the deaconesses of the Church, and was now about to
sail to Rome, upon some private business, apparently connected with a
lawsuit in which she was engaged. St. Paul availed himself of this
opportunity to send a letter by her hands to the Roman Church. His
reason for writing to them at this time was his intention of speedily
visiting them, on his way from Jerusalem to Spain. He desired, before
his personal intercourse with them should begin, to give them a proof of
the affectionate interest which he felt for them, although they ‘had not
seen his face in the flesh.’ We must not suppose, however, that they
were hitherto altogether unknown to him; for we see, from the very
numerous salutations at the close of the Epistle, that he was already
well acquainted with many individual Christians at Rome. From the
personal acquaintance he had thus formed, and the intelligence he had
received, he had reason to entertain a very high opinion of the
character of the Church; and accordingly he tells them (Rom. 15:14 16)
that, in entering so fully in his letter upon the doctrines and rules of
Christianity, he had done it not so much to teach as to remind them; and
that he was justified in assuming the authority so to exhort them, by
the special commission which Christ had given him to the Gentiles.

The latter expression shows us that a considerable proportion, if not
the majority, of the Roman Christians were of Gentile origin, which is
also evident from several other passages in the Epistle. At the same
time, we cannot doubt that the original nucleus of the Church there, as
well as in all the other great cities of the Empire, was formed by
converts (including more Gentile proselytes than Jews) who had separated
themselves from the Jewish synagogue. The name of the original founder
of the Roman Church has not been preserved to us by history, nor even
celebrated by tradition. This is a remarkable fact, when we consider how
soon the Church of Rome attained great eminence in the Christian world,
both from its numbers, and from the influence of its metropolitan rank.

Had any of the Apostles laid its first foundation, the fact could
scarcely fail to have been recorded. It is therefore probable that it
was formed in the first instance, of private Christians converted in
Palestine, who had come from the eastern
<sup>**[<sup>5</sup>](#sdfootnote5sym)**</sup> parts of the Empire to
reside at Rome, or who had brought back Christianity with them, from
some of their periodical visits to Jerusalem, as the ‘Strangers of
Rome,’ from the great Pentecost. Indeed, among the immense multitudes
whom political and commercial reasons constantly attracted to the
metropolis of the world, there could not fail to be representatives of
every religion which had established itself in any of the provinces.

On this hypothesis, the earliest of the Roman Christians were Jews by
birth, who resided in Rome, from some of the causes above alluded to. By
their efforts others of their friends and fellow countrymen (who were
very numerous at Rome) would have been led to embrace the Gospel. But
the Church so founded, though Jewish in its origin, was remarkably free
from the predominance of Judaizing tendencies. This is evident from the
fact that so large a proportion of it at this early period were already
of Gentile blood; and it appears still more plainly from the tone
assumed by St. Paul throughout the Epistle, so different from that in
which he addresses the Galatians, although the subject matter is often
nearly identical. Yet, at the same time, the Judaizing element, though
not preponderating, was not entirely absent. We find that there were
opponents of the Gospel at Rome, who argued against it on the ground of
the immoral consequences which followed (as they thought) from the
doctrine of Justification by Faith; and even charged St. Paul himself
with maintaining that the greater man’s sin, the greater was God’s
glory. (See Rom. 3:8.)

Moreover, not all the Jewish members of the Church could bring
themselves to acknowledge their uncircumcised Gentile brethren as their
equals in the privileges of Christ’s kingdom (Rom. 3:9 and 29; 15:7 11);
and, on the other hand, the more enlightened Gentile converts were
inclined to treat the lingering Jewish prejudices of weak consciences
with scornful contempt (Rom. xiv. 3). It was the aim of St. Paul to win
the former of these parties to Christian truth, and the latter to
Christian love; and to remove the stumbling blocks out of the way of
both, by setting before them that grand summary of the doctrine and
practice of Christianity which is contained in the following Epistle.

##### Epistle to the Romans <sup>[<sup>6</sup>](#sdfootnote6sym)</sup>

##### Romans 1

PAUL, a bondsman of Jesus Christ, a called Apostle, set apart to publish
the Glad tidings of God, which He promised of old by His Prophets in the
Holy Scriptures, concerning His Son (who was born of the seed of David
according to the flesh, but was marked out as the Son of God with mighty
power, according to the spirit of holiness, by resurrection from the
dead), even Jesus Christ, our Lord and Master. By whom I received grace
and apostleship, that I might declare His name among all the Gentiles,
and bring them to the obedience of faith. Among whom ye also are
numbered, being called by Jesus Christ – to ALL GOD’S BELOVED, CALLED TO
BE SAINTS, WHO DWELL IN ROME.

Grace be to you, and peace from God our Father, and from our Lord Jesus
Christ.

First I thank my God through Jesus Christ for you all because the
tidings of your faith are told throughout the whole world. For God is my
witness (whom I serve with the worship of my spirit, in proclaiming the
Glad tidings of His Son), how unceasingly I make mention of you at all
times in my prayers, beseeching Him that, if it be possible, 1 might now
at length have a way open to me according to the will of God, to come
and visit you. For I long to see you, that I may impart to you some
spiritual gift, for the establishment of your steadfastness; that I may
share with you (I would say) in mutual encouragement, through the faith
both of you and me together, one with another. But I would not have you
ignorant, brethren, that I have often purposed to come to you (though
hitherto I have been hindered), that I might have some fruit among you
also, as I have among the other Gentiles. I am a debtor both to Greeks
and Barbarians, both to wise and foolish; therefore, as far as in me
lies, I am ready to declare the Glad tidings to you that are in Rome, as
well as to others. For [even in the chief city of the world] I am not
ashamed of the Glad tidings of Christ, seeing it is the mighty power
whereby God brings salvation to every man that has faith therein, to the
Jew first, and also to the Gentile.
<sup>**[<sup>7</sup>](#sdfootnote7sym)**</sup> For therein God’s
righteousness <sup>**[<sup>8</sup>](#sdfootnote8sym)**</sup> is
revealed, a righteousness which springs from Faith, and which faith
receives, as it is written: “By faith shall the righteous live.” (Hab.
2:4)

For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and
unrighteousness of men, who keep down the truth [which they know] by the
wickedness wherein they live. Because that which can be known of God is
manifested in their hearts, God Himself having shown it to them; for His
eternal power and Godhead, though they be invisible, yet are seen ever
since the world was made, being understood by His works that they [who
despised Him] might have no excuse; because although they knew God they
glorified Him not as God nor gave Him thanks, but in their reasoning
they went astray after vanity, and their senseless heart was darkened.
Calling themselves wise, they were turned into fools, and forsook the
glory 3 of the imperishable God for idols graven in the likeness of
perishable men, or of birds and beasts, and creeping things. Therefore
God also gave them up to work uncleanness according to their hearts’
lust. to dishonor their bodies one with another; seeing they had
bartered the truth of God for lies, and reverenced and worshipped the
things made instead of the Maker, who is blessed forever, Amen.

For this cause God gave them up to shameful passions; for on the one
hand their women changed the natural use into that which is against
nature; and on the other hand their men, in like manner, leaving the
natural use of the woman, burned in their lust one toward another, men
with men working abomination, and receiving in themselves the due
recompense of their transgression. And as they thought fit to cast out
the acknowledgment of God, God gave them over to an outcast mind, to do
the things that are unseemly. They are filled with all unrighteousness,
fornication, depravity, covetousness, maliciousness. They overflow with
envy, murder, strife, deceit, malignity. They are whisperers,
backbiters, God haters; outrageous, overweening, false boasters;
inventors of wickedness; undutiful to parents; bereft of wisdom;
breakers of covenanted faith; devoid of natural affection; ruthless,
merciless. Who knowing the decree of God whereby all that do such things
are worthy of death, not only commit the sins, but delight in their
fellowship with the sinners.

##### Romans 2

Wherefore thou, O man, whosoever thou art that judgest others, art
thyself without excuse; for in judging thy neighbor thou condemnest
thyself, since thy deeds are the same which in him thou dost condemn.
And we know that God judges them who do such wickedness, not by their
words, but by their deeds. But reckonest thou, O thou that condemnest
such evil doers, and doest the like thyself, that thou shalt escape the
judgment of God? or does the rich abundance of His kindness and
forbearance and long suffering cause thee to despise Him? and art thou
ignorant that God, by His kindness [in withholding punishment], strives
to lead thee to repentance?

But thou in the hardness and impenitence of thy heart, art treasuring up
against thyself a store of wrath, which will be manifested in the day of
wrath, even the day when God will reveal to the sight of men the
righteousness of His judgment. For He will pay to all their due,
according to their deeds; to those who with steadfast endurance in well
doing seek glory and honor incorruptible, He wills give life eternal;
but for men of guile, 8 who are obedient to unrighteousness, and
disobedient to the truth, indignation and wrath, tribulation and anguish
shall fall upon them; yea, upon every soul of man that does the work of
evil, upon the Jew first, and also upon the Gentile.

But glory and honor and peace shall be given to every man who does the
work of good, to the Jew first, and also to the Gentiles; for there is
no respect of persons with God.

For they who have sinned without [the knowledge of] the Law, shall
perish without [the punishment of] the Law; and they who have sinned
under the Law, shall be judged by the Law. For not the hearers of the
Law <sup>**[<sup>9</sup>](#sdfootnote9sym)**</sup> are righteous in
God’s sight, but the doers of the Law shall be counted righteous. For
when the Gentiles, having not the Law, do by nature the works of the
Law, they, though they have not the Law, are a Law to themselves; since
they manifest the work of the Law written in their hearts; while their
conscience also bears its witness, and their inward thoughts answering
one to the other, accuse, or else defend them; [as will be seen] in that
day when God shall judge the secret counsels of men by Jesus Christ,
according to the G lad tidings which I preach.

Behold thou callest thyself a Jew and restest in the Law, and boastest
of God’s favor, and knowest the will of God and givest judgment upon
good or evil, being instructed by the teaching of the Law. Thou deemest
thyself a guide of the blind, a light to those who are in darkness, an
instructor of the simple, a teacher of babes, possessing in the Law the
perfect pattern of knowledge and of truth. Thou therefore that teachest
thy neighbor, dost thou not teach thyself? thou that preachest a man
should not steal, dost thou steal? thou that sayest a mall should not
commit adultery, dost thou commit adultery? thou that abhorrest idols,
dost thou rob temples? thou that makest thy boast in the Law, by
breaking the Law dost thou dishonor God? Yea, as it is written, “Through
you is the name of God blasphemed among the Gentiles.” (Isa. 52:5)

For circumcision avails if thou keep the Law; but if thou be a breaker
of the Law, thy circumcision is turned into uncircumcision. If then the
uncircumcised Gentile keep the decrees of the Law, shall not his
uncircumcision be counted for circumcision? And shall not he, though
naturally uncircumcised, by fulfilling the Law, condemn thee, who with
Scripture and circumcision dost break the Law? For he is not a Jew, who
is one outwardly; nor is that circumcision, which is outward in the
flesh; but he is a Jew who is one inwardly, and circumcision is that of
the heart, in the spirit, not in the letter; whose praise comes not from
man but from God.

##### Romans 3

But if this be so, what advantage has the Jew, and what has been the
profit of circumcision?’ Much every way. First, because to their keeping
were entrusted the oracles of God. For what, though some of them were
faithless to the trust? shall we say that their faithlessness destroys
the faithfulness of God? That be far from us. Yea, be sure that God is
true, though all mankind be liars, as it is written: “That thou mightest
be justified in thy sayings, and mightest overcome when thou art
judged.” (Psa. 51:4) But if the righteousness of God is established by
our unrighteousness [His faithfulness being more clearly seen by our
faithlessness], must we not say that God is unjust,” (I speak as men
do), “in sending the punishment?” That be far from us, for [if this
punishment be unjust], how shall God judge the world? since
<sup>**[<sup>10</sup>](#sdfootnote10sym)**</sup> [of that judgment also
it might be said]: ‘If God’s truth has by the occasion of my falsehood
more fully shown itself, to the greater manifestation of His glory, why
am I still condemned as a sinner? and why should we not say’ (as I
myself am slanderously charged with saying) ‘Let us do evil that good
may come?’ Of such men the doom is just.

What shall we say then? [having gifts above the Gentiles] have we the
pre eminence over them? No, in no wise; for we have already charged all,
both Jews and Gentiles, with the guilt of sin. And so it is written,
“There is none righteous, no not one; there is none that understandeth,
there is none that seeketh after God, they are all gone out of the way,
they are altogether become unprofitable, there is none that doeth good,
no not one. Their throat is an open sepulcher, with their tongue they
have used deceit, the poison of asps is under their lips. Their mouth is
full of cursing and bitterness. Their feet are swift to shed blood.
Destruction and misery are in their paths, and the way of peace have
they not known. There is no fear of God before their eyes.” (Psalm 14:1
3)

Now we know that all the sayings of the Law are spoken to those under
the Law; [these things therefore are spoken to the Jews] that every
mouth might be stopped, and the whole world might be subjected to the
judgment of God. For through the works of the Law, “shall no flesh be
justified in His sight,” (Psalm 143:2) because by the Law is wrought
[not the doing of righteousness, but] the acknowledgment of sin.

But now, not by the Law, but by another way, God’s righteousness is
brought to light, whereto the Law and the prophets bear witness; God’s
righteous (I say) which comes by faith in Jesus Christ, for all and upon
all, who have faith; for there is no difference [between Jew and
Gentile], since all have sinned, and none have attained the glorious
likeness of God. But they are justified freely by His grace through the
ransom which is paid in Christ Jesus. For Him hath God set forth, in His
blood to be a propitiatory sacrifice by means of Faith, thereby to
manifest the righteousness of God; because in His forbearance God had
passed over the former sins of men in the times that are gone by. [Him
(I say) hath God set forth in this present time to manifest His
righteousness, that He might be just and [yet] might justify the
children of Faith. Where then is the boasting [of the Jew]? It has been
shut out. By what law? by the law of works? no, but by the law of Faith.
For we reckon that by Faith a man is justified, and not by the works of
the Law; else God must be the God of the Jews alone; but is He not
likewise the God of the Gentiles ? Yea, He is the God of the Gentiles
also. For God is one [for all men J, and He will justify through Faith
the circumcision of the Jews, and by their Faith will He justify also
the un circumcision of the Gentiles.

Do we then by faith bring to nought the Law? Yea, we establish the Law.

##### Romans 4

What then 1 can we say that our father Abraham gained by the fleshly
ordinance? For, if Abraham was justified by works he has a ground of
boasting. But he has no ground of boasting with God ; for what says the
Scripture: “Abraham had faith in God, and it was reckoned unto him for
righteousness.” (Gen. 15:6) Now if a man earn his pay by his work, it is
not reckoned to him as a favor, but it is paid to him as a debt; but if
he earns nothing by his work, but puts faith in Him who justifies the
ungodly, then his faith is “reckoned to him for righteousness.”

In like manner David also tells the blessedness of the man, to whom God
reckoneth righteousness, not by works but by another way, saying,
“Blessed are they whose iniquities are forgive, and whose sins are
covered. Blessed is the man against whom the Lord shall not reckon sin.”
(Psalm 32:1,2) Is this blessing then for the circumcised alone? or does
it not belong also to the uncircumcised? for we say, “his faith was
reckoned to Abraham for righteousness.”

How then was it reckoned to him? when he was circumcised, or
uncircumcised? Not in circumcision but in uncircumcision, And he
received circumcision as an outward sign of inward things, a seal to
attest the righteousness which belonged to his faith while he was yet
uncircumcised. That so he might be father of all the faithful who are
uncircumcised, that the righteousness [of Faith] might be reckoned to
them also; and father of circumcision to those who are not circumcised
only in the flesh, but who also tread in the steps of that Faith which
our father Abraham had while yet uncircumcised.

For the promise <sup>**[<sup>11</sup>](#sdfootnote11sym)**</sup> to
.Abraham and his seed that he should inherit the world came not by the
Law, but by the righteousness of Faith. For, if this inheritance belong
to the children of the Law, Faith is made of no account, and the promise
is brought to nought; because the Law brings [not blessings but]
punishment, <sup>**[<sup>12</sup>](#sdfootnote12sym)**</sup> (for where
there is no law, there can be no law. breaking). Therefore the
inheritance belongs to Faith, that it might be a free gift; that so the
promise [not being capable of forfeiture] might stand firm to all the
seed of .Abraham, not to his children of the Law alone, but to the
children of his Faith; for he is the Father of us all [both Jews and
Gentiles], (as it is written, “I have made thee the father of many
nations,” (Gen. 17:5) in the sight of God, who saw his faith, even God
who makes the dead to live, and calls the things that are not as though
they were. For .Abraham had faith in hope beyond hope, that he might
become “The father of many nations;” as it was said unto him, “Look
toward heaven and tell the stars if thou be able to number them; even so
shall thy seed by.” <sup>**[<sup>13</sup>](#sdfootnote13sym)**</sup> And
having no feebleness in his faith, he regarded not his own body which
was already dead (being about a hundred years old), nor the deadness of
Sarah’s womb; at the promise of God (I say) he doubted not faithlessly,
but was filled with the strength of Faith, and gave glory to God; being
fully persuaded that what He has promised He is able also to perform.
Therefore “his faith was reckoned to him for righteousness.”

But these words were not written for his sake only, but for our sakes
likewise; for it will be “reckoned unto righteousness” to us also, who
have faith in Him that raised from the dead our Lord Jesus; who was
given up to death for our transgressions, and raised again to life for
our justification.

##### Romans 5

Therefore, being justified by faith, we have peace with God through our
Lord Jesus Christ, through whom also we have received entrance into this
grace wherein we stand; and we exult in hope of the glory of God. And
not only so, but we exult also in our sufferings; for we know that by
suffering is wrought steadfastness, and steadfastness is the proof of
soundness, and proof gives rise to hope; and out hope cannot shame us in
the day of trial; because the love of God is shed forth in our hearts by
the Holy Spirit, who has been given to unto us. For while we were yet
helpless [in our sins], Christ at the appointed time died for sinners.
Now hardly for a righteous man will any be found to die (although some
perchance would even endure death for the good), but God gives proof of
His own love to us, because while we were yet sinners Christ died for
us.

Much more, now that we have been justified in His blood, shall we be
saved through Him from the wrath to come. For if, when we were His
enemies, we were reconciled to God by the death of His Son, much more,
being already reconciled, shall we be saved, by sharing in G His life.
Nor is this our hope only for the time to come; but also [in our present
sufferings] we exult in God, through Jesus Christ our Lord, by whom we
have now received reconciliation with God.

This therefore is like the case when through one man [Adam], sin entered
into the world and by sin death and so death spread to all mankind
because all committed sin. For before the Law was given [by Moses] there
was sin in the world; but sin is not the reckoned against the sinner,
when there is no law [forbidding] it; nevertheless death reigned from
Adam till Moses even over those whose sin [not being the breach of law]
did not resemble the sin of Adam. Now Adam is an image of Him that was
to come. But far greater is the gift than was the transgression; for if
by the sin of the one man [Adam], death came upon the many, much more in
the grace of the one man Jesus Christ has the freeness of God’s bounty
overflowed unto the many. Moreover the boon [of God] exceeds the fruit
of Adam’s sin; for the doom came, out of one offence, a sentence of
condemnation; but the gift comes, out of many offences, a sentence of
acquittal. For if the reign of death was established by the one man
[Adam], through the sin of him alone; far more shall the reign of life
be established in those who receive the overflowing fullness of the free
gift of righteousness, by the one man Jesus Christ. Therefore, as the
fruit of one offence reached to all men, and brought upon them
condemnation [the source of death]; so likewise the fruit of one
acquittal shall reach to all, and shall bring justification, the source
of life. For as, by the disobedience of the one, the many were made
sinners; so by the obedience of the one, the many shall be made
righteous. And the Law was added, that sin might abound; I but where sin
abounded, the gift of grace has overflowed beyond [the outbreak of sin];
that as sin has reigned in death, so grace might reign through
righteousness unto life eternal, by the work of Jesus Christ our Lord.

##### Romans 6

What shall we say then? shall we persist in sin that the gift of grace
may be more abundant ? God forbid. We who have died to sin, how can we
any longer live in sin? or have you forgotten that all of us, when we
were baptized into fellowship with Christ Jesus, were baptized into
fellowship with His death? With Him therefore we were buried by the
baptism wherein we shared His death [when we sank beneath the waters];
that even as Christ was raised up from the dead by the glory of the
Father, so we likewise might walk in newness of life. For if we have
been grafted <sup>**[<sup>14</sup>](#sdfootnote14sym)**</sup> into the
likeness of His death, so shall we also share His resurrection. For we
know that our old man was crucified with Christ, that the sinful body
[of the old man] might be destroyed, that we might no longer be the
slaves of sin; (for he that is dead is justified from sin). Now if we
have shared the death of Christ, we believe that we shall also share His
life; knowing that Christ being raised from the dead, can die no more;
death has no more dominion over Him. For He died once, and once only,
unto sin; but He lives [for ever] unto God. Likewise reckon ye also
yourselves to be dead indeed unto sin, but living unto God in Christ
Jesus. Let not sin therefore reign in your dying body, causing you to
obey its lusts; nor give up your members to sin, as instruments of
unrighteousness; but give yourselves to God, as being restored to life
from the dead, and your members to His service as instruments of
righteousness; for sin shall not have the mastery over you, since you
are not under the Law, but under grace.

What then? shall we sin because we are not under the Law, but under
grace? God forbid. Know ye not that He to whose service you give
yourselves, is your real master, whether sin, whose end is death, or
obedience, whose end is righteousness. But God be thanked that you, who
were once the slaves of sin, obeyed from your hearts the teaching
whereby you were molded anew; and when you were freed from the slavery
of sin, you became the bondsmen of righteousness. (I speak the language
of common life, to show the weakness of your fleshly nature [which must
be in bondage either to the one, or to the other]). For as once you gave
up the members of your body for slaves of uncleanness and
licentiousness, to work the deeds of license; so now must you give them
up for slaves of righteousness to work the deeds of holiness. For when
you were the slaves of sin, you were free from the service of
righteousness. What fruit had you then in those things, from the deeds
whereof you are now ashamed? yea, the end of them is death. But now,
being freed from the bondage of sin, and enslaved to the service of God,
your fruit is growth in holiness, and its end is life eternal. For the
wage of sin is death; but the gift of God is eternal life in Christ
Jesus our Lord and master.

##### Romans 7

[I say that you are not under the Law ]; or are you ignorant, brethren
(for I speak to those who know the Law), that the dominion of the Law
over man lasts only during their life? thus the married woman is bound
by the Law to her husband while he lives, but if her husband be dead,
the Law which bound her to him has lost its hold upon her; so that while
her husband is living if she be joined to another man, she will be
counted an adulteress; but if her husband be dead, she is free from the
Law, so as to be no adulteress although joined to another man.

Where you also, my brethren, were made dead to the Law, by [union with]
the body of Christ; that you might be married to another, even to Him
who was raised from the dead; that we might bring forth fruit unto God.
For when we were in the flesh, the sinful passions occasioned by the Law
wrought in our members, leading us to bring forth fruit unto death. But
now that we have died [with Christ] the Law wherein we were formerly
held fast, has lost its hold upon us: so that we are no longer in the
old bondage of the letter, but in the new service of the spirit.

What shall we say then? that the Law is Sin? That be far from US! But
then I should not have known what sin was, except through the Law; thus
I should not have known the sin of coveting, unless the Law had said
“Thou shalt not covet.” (Exodus 20:17) But when sin had gained by the
commandment a vantage ground against me , it wrought in me all manner of
covetousness (for where these is no law, sin is dead). And I felt that I
was alive before, when I knew no law; but when the commandment came, sin
rose to life, and I died; and the very commandment whose end is life,
was found to be the cause of death; for sin, when it had gained a
vantage ground by the commandment, deceived me to my fall, and slew me
by the sentence of the Law.

Wherefore the Law indeed is holy, and its commandments are holy, and
just, and good. Do I say then that Good became to me Death? Far be that
from me. But I say that win wrought this; that so it might be made
manifest as sin, in working Death to me through [the knowledge of] Good;
that sin might become beyond measure sinful, by the commandment.

For we know that the Law is spiritual; but for me, I am carnal, a slave
sold into the captivity of sin. What I do, I acknowledge not; for I so
not what I ·would, but what I hate. But if my will is against my deeds,
I thereby acknowledge the goodness of the Law. And now it is no more I
myself who do the evil, but it is the sin which dwells in me.

For I know that in me, that is, in my flesh, good abides not; for to
will is present with me, but to do the right is absent; the good that I
would, I do not; but the evil which I would not, that I do. Now if my
own will is against my deeds, it is no more I myself who do them, but
the sin which dwells in me. I find then this law, that though my will is
to do good, yet evil is present with me; for I consent gladly to the law
of God in my inner man; but I behold another law in my members, warring
against the law of my mind, and making me captive to the law of sin
which is in my members. O wretched man that I am! who shall deliver me
from this body of death?

I thank God [that He has now delivered me] through Jesus Christ our
Lord.

So then in myself, though I am subject in my mind to the law of God, yet
in my flesh I am subject to the law of sin.

##### Romans 8

Now, therefore, there is no condemnation to those who are in Christ
Jesus; for the law of the Spirit of life in Christ Jesus has freed me
from the law of sin and death. For God (which was impossible to the Law,
because by the flesh it had no power), by sending His own Son in the
likeness of sinful flesh. and on behalf of sin, overcame
<sup>**[<sup>15</sup>](#sdfootnote15sym)**</sup> sin in the flesh; to
the end, that the decrees of the Law might be fulfilled in us, who walk
not after the Flesh, but after the Spirit.
<sup>**[<sup>16</sup>](#sdfootnote16sym)**</sup> For they who live after
the flesh, mind fleshly things; but they who live after the Spirit mind
spiritual things, and the fleshly mind is death; but the spiritual mind
is life and peace. Because the fleshly mind is enmity against God; for
it is not subject to the law of God, nor can be; and they whose life is
in the Flesh cannot please God. But your life is not in the Flesh, but
in the Spirit, if indeed the Spirit of God be dwelling in you; and if
any man has not the Spirit of Christ, he is not Christ’s. But if Christ
be in you, though your body be dead, because of sin [to which its nature
tends], yet your spirit is life, because of righteousness [which dwells
within it]; yea, if the Spirit of Him who raised Jesus from the dead be
dwelling in you, He who raised Christ from the dead shall endow with
life also your dying bodies, by His Spirit which dwells within you.
Therefore, brethren, we are debtors bound not to the Flesh, that we
should live after the Flesh [but to the Spirit]; for if you live after
the Flesh, you are doomed to die; but if by the Spirit you destroy the
deeds of the body, in their death you will attain to life.

For all who are led by God’s Spirit, and they alone, are the sons of
God. For you have not received a Spirit of bondage, that you should go
back again to the state of slavish fear, but you have received a Spirit
of adoption wherein we cry [unto God] saying “Father.” The Spirit itself
bears witness with our own spirit, that we are the children of God, And
if children, then heirs: heirs of God, and joint heirs with Christ; that
if now we share His sufferings, we should hereafter share His glory. For
I reckon that the sufferings of this present time are nothing worth,
when set against the glory which shall soon be revealed unto us. For the
longing of the creation looks eagerly for the time when [the glory of]
the sons of God shall be revealed. For the creation was made subject to
decay, not by its own will, but because of Him who subjected it thereto,
in hope: for the creation itself also shall be delivered from its by
slavery to death, and shall gain the freedom of the sons of God when
they are glorified. For we know that the whole creation is groaning
together, and suffering the pangs of labor, which have not yet brought
forth the birth. And not only they, but ourselves also, who have
received the Spirit for the first fruits [of our inheritance], even we
ourselves are groaning inwardly, longing for the adoption
<sup>**[<sup>17</sup>](#sdfootnote17sym)**</sup> which shall ransom our
body from its bondage. For our salvation lies in hope; but hope
possessed is not hope, since a man cannot hope for what he sees in his
possession; but if we hope for things not seen, we steadfastly endure
the present, and long earnestly for the future. And, even as we long for
our redemption, so the Spirit gives help to our weakness; for we know
not what we should pray for as we ought; but the Spirit itself makes
intercession for us, with groans [for deliverance] which words cannot
utter. But He who searches our hearts knows [though it be unspoken] what
is the desire of the Spirit, because He intercedes for the saints
according to the will of God.

Moreover, we know that all things work together for good to those who
love God, who have been called according to His purpose. For those whom
He foreknew, He also predestined to be made like to the pattern of His
Son, that many brethren might be joined to Him, the firstborn. And those
whom He predestined, them He also called; and whom He called, them He
also justified; and whom He justified, them He also glorified. What
shall we say then to these things? If God be for us, who can be against
us? He that spared not His own Son, but gave Him up for us all, how
shall He not with Him also freely give us all things? What accuser can
harm God’s chosen? it is God who justifies them. What judge can doom us?
It is Christ who died, nay, rather, who is risen from the dead; yea, who
is at the right hand of God, who also makes intercession for us. Who can
separate us from the love of Christ? Can suffering, or straitness of
distress, or persecution, or famine, or nakedness, or the peril of our
lives, or the swords of our enemies? [though we may say,] as it is
written, “For Thy sake we are killed all the day long; we are accounted
as sheep for the slaughter.” (Psalm 44:22)

Nay, in all these things we are more than conquerors through Him that
loved us. For I am persuaded that neither death, nor life, all the
Principalities and Powers of Angels, nor things present, nor things to
come, nor things above, nor things below, nor any power in the whole
creation, shall be able to separate us from the love of God which is in
Christ Jesus our Lord.

##### Romans 9

I speak the truth in Christ (and my conscience bears me witness, with
the Holy Spirit’s testimony, that I lie not), I have great heaviness,
and unceasing sorrow in my heart; yea, I could wish that I myself were
cast out from Christ as an accursed thing, for the sake of my brethren,
my kinsmen according to the flesh; who are the seed of Israel, whom God
adopted for His children, whose were the glory of the Shekinah, and the
Covenants, and the Lawgiving, and the service of the temple, and the
promises of blessing. Whose fathers were the patriarchs, and of whom (as
to His flesh) was born the Christ who is over all, God blessed forever.
Amen.

Yet I speak not as if the promise of God had fallen to the ground; for
not all are Israel who are of Israel, nor because all are the seed of
Abraham, are they all the children of Abraham; but “In Isaac shall thy
seed be called.” (Gen. 21:12) That is, not the children of the flesh of
Abraham are the sons of God, but his children of the promise are counted
for his seed. For thus spoke the word of promise, saying, “At this time
will I come, and Sarah shall have a son.” (Gen. 18:10) [so that Ishmael,
although the son of Abraham, had no part in the promise]. And not only
so, but[Esau likewise was shut out; for when Rebekah had conceived two
sons by the same husband, our forefather Isaac, yea, while they were not
yet born, and had done nothing either good or bad (that God’s purpose
according to election might abide, coming not from the works of the
called, but from the will of The Caller,) it was declared unto her “The
elder shall serve the younger.” (Gen. 25:23) according to that which is
written, “Jacob I loved, but Esau I hated.” (Mal. 1:2,3)

What shall we say, then? Shall we call God unjust [because He has cast
off the seed of Abraham]? That be far from us. For to Moses He saith, “I
will have mercy on whom I will have mercy, and I will have compassion on
whom I will have compassion.” (Exodus 33:19) So then, the choice comes
not from man’s will, nor from man’s speed, but from God’s mercy. And
thus the Scripture says to Pharaoh, “Even for this end did I raise thee
up, that I might show my power in thee, and that my name might be
declared throughout all the earth.” (Exodus 9:16)

According to his will, therefore, He has mercy on one, and hardens
another. Thou wilt say to me, then, “Why does God still blame us? for
who can resist His will?” Nay, rather, oh man, who art thou that
disputes against God? “Shall the thing formed say to him that formed it,
Why hast thou made me thus?” (Isa. 14:9) “Hath not the potter power over
the clay?” <sup>**[<sup>18</sup>](#sdfootnote18sym)**</sup> to make out
of the same lump one vessel for honor and one for dishonor? But what if
God (though willing to show forth His wrath, and to make known His
power) endured with much long suffering vessels of wrath, fitted for
destruction, [and cast them not at once away]? And what if thus He
purposed to make known the riches of His glory bestowed upon vessels of
mercy, which He had before prepared for glory?

And such are we, whom He has called not only from among the Jews, but
from among the Gentiles, as He saith also in Hosea, “I will call them my
people which were not my people, and her beloved which was not beloved;
(Hos. 2:23) and it shall come to pass that in the place where it was
said unto them, Ye are not my people, there shall they be called the
sons of the living God.” (Hos. 1:10) But Isaiah cries concerning Israel,
saying, “Though the number of the sons of Israel be as the sand of the
sea, [only] the remnant shall be saved; for He doth complete His
reckoning, and cuts it short in righteousness; yea, a short reckoning
will the Lord make upon the earth.” (Isa. 10:22,23)

And as Isaiah said before, “Except the Lord Sabaoth had left us a seed
remaining, we had been as Sodom, and had been made like unto Gomorrah.”
(Isa. 1:9)

What shall we say, then? We say that the Gentiles though they sought not
after righteousness, have attained to righteousness, even the
righteousness of faith; but that the house of Israel, though they sought
a law of righteousness, have not attained thereto. And why/ Because they
sought it not by faith, but thought to gain it by the works of the Law;
for they stumbled against the stone of stumbling, as it is written,
“Behold I lay in Zion a stone of stumbling, and a rock of offence; and
no man that hath faith in Him shall be confounded.”
<sup>**[<sup>19</sup>](#sdfootnote19sym)**</sup>

##### Romans 10

Brethren, my heart’s desire and prayer to God for Israel is, that they
may be saved; for I bear them witness that they have a zeal for God, yet
not guided by knowledge of God;
<sup>**[<sup>20</sup>](#sdfootnote20sym)**</sup> for because they knew
not the righteousness of God, and sought to establish their own
righteousness, therefore they submitted not to the righteousness of God.

For the end of the Law is Christ, that all may attain righteousness who
have faith in Him. For Moses writes concerning the righteousness of the
Law, saying, “The man that hath done these things shall live therein;”
<sup>**[<sup>21</sup>](#sdfootnote21sym)**</sup> but the righteousness
of faith speaks in this wise. Say not in thine heart, “Who shall ascend
into heaven?” <sup>**[<sup>22</sup>](#sdfootnote22sym)**</sup> that is,
“Who can bring down Christ from heaven?”, nor say, “Who shall descend
into the abyss?”, that is, “Who can raise up Christ from the dead?” But
how speaks it? “The Word is nigh thee, even in thy mouth and in thy
heart;” that is, that is, the Word Faith which we proclaim, saying, ‘If
with thy mouth thou shalt confess Jesus for thy Lord, and shalt have
faith in thy heart that God raised Him from the dead, thou shalt be
saved.’ For faith unto righteousness is in the heart, and confession
unto salvation is from the mouth. And so says the Scripture, “No man
that hath faith in Him shall be confounded;”
<sup>**[<sup>23</sup>](#sdfootnote23sym)**</sup> for there is no
distinction between Jew and Gentile, because the same [Jesus] is Lord
over all, and He gives richly to all who call upon Him; for “Every man
who shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved.”
<sup>**[<sup>24</sup>](#sdfootnote24sym)**</sup>

How then shall they call on Him in whom they have put no faith? And how
shall they put faith in Him whom they never heard? And how shall they
hear of Him if no man bear the tidings? And who shall bear the tidings
if no messengers be sent forth?
<sup>**[<sup>25</sup>](#sdfootnote25sym)**</sup>

As it is written, “How beautiful are the feet of them that bear glad
tidings of peace, that bear glad tidings of good things.”
<sup>**[<sup>26</sup>](#sdfootnote26sym)**</sup> Yet some have not
hearkened to the glad tidings, as saith Esaias, “Lord, who hath given
faith to our teaching?” <sup>**[<sup>27</sup>](#sdfootnote27sym)**</sup>

So then, faith comes by teaching;
<sup>**[<sup>28</sup>](#sdfootnote28sym)**</sup> and our teaching comes
by the Word of God. But I say, have they not heard [the voices of the
teachers]? Yea, “Their sound has gone forth into all the earth, and
their words unto the ends of the earth.”
<sup>**[<sup>29</sup>](#sdfootnote29sym)**</sup>

Again I say, did not Israel know [the purpose of God]? yea, it is said
first my Moses, “I will make you jealous against them which are no
people, against a Gentile nation without understanding will I make you
wrath.” <sup>**[<sup>30</sup>](#sdfootnote30sym)**</sup>

But Esaias speaks boldly, saying, “I was found of them that asked not
after me.” <sup>**[<sup>31</sup>](#sdfootnote31sym)**</sup> But unto
Israel he says, “All day long have I spread forth my arms unto a
disobedient and gainsaying people.”
<sup>**[<sup>32</sup>](#sdfootnote32sym)**</sup>

##### Romans 11

I say, then, must we think that God has cast off His people?
<sup>**[<sup>33</sup>](#sdfootnote33sym)**</sup> That be far from us;
for I am myself an Israelite, of the seed of Abraham, of the tribe of
Benjamin. God has not cast off His people whom He foreknew. Yea, know ye
not what is said in the scriptures of Elias, how he intercedes with God
against Israel, saying, “Lord, they have killed thy prophets and digged
down thine altars, and I only have been left, and they seek my life
also.” <sup>**[<sup>34</sup>](#sdfootnote34sym)**</sup> But what says
the answer of God to him? “I have yet left to myself a remnant, even
seven thousand men, who have not bowed the knee to Baal.”

So likewise at this present time there is a remnant [of the house of
Israel] chosen by gift of 6 grace. But if their choice be the gift of
grace, it can no more be deemed the wage of works; for the gift that is
earned is no gift: or if it be gained by works, it is no longer the gift
of grace; for work claims wages and not gifts. ’What follows then? That
which Israel seeks, Israel has not won; but the chosen have won it, and
the rest were blinded, as it is written, “God hath given them a spirit
of slumber, eyes that they should not see, and ears that they should not
hear, unto this way.” <sup>**[<sup>35</sup>](#sdfootnote35sym)**</sup>
And David   
says, “Let their table be made a snare and a trap, and a stumbling block
and a recompense unto them. Let their eyes be darkened that they may not
see, and bow down their back always.”
<sup>**[<sup>36</sup>](#sdfootnote36sym)**</sup>

Shall we say, then, <sup>**[<sup>37</sup>](#sdfootnote37sym)**</sup>
“they have stumbled to the end that they might fall?” That be far from
us; but rather their stumbling has brought salvation to the Gentiles,
“to provoke Israel in jealousy.” Now if their stumbling enriches the
world, and if the lessening of their gain gives wealth to the Gentiles,
how much more must their fullness do!

For to you who are Gentiles I say that, as Apostle of the Gentiles, I
glorify my ministration for this end if perchance I might provide to
jealousy my kinsmen, and save some among them. For if the casting of
them out is the reconciliation of the world [to God], what must the
gathering in of them be, but life from the dead?

Now, if the first of the dough be hallowed, the whole mass is thereby
hallowed; and if the root be hallowed, so are also the branches. But if
some of the branches were broken off, and thou being of the wild olive
stock wast grafted in amongst them, and made to share the root and
richness of the olive, yet boast not over the branches: but if thou art
boastful thou bearest not the root, but the root thee. Thou wilt say
then, "the branches were broken off that I might be grafted in.’

It is true, for lack of faith they were broken off, and by faith thou
standest in their place: be not high minded, but fear; for if’ God
spared not, the natural branches, take heed lest He also spare not thee.
Behold, therefore, the goodness and the severity of God; towards them
who fell, severity, but towards thee, goodness, if thou continue
steadfast to His goodness; for otherwise thou too shalt be cut off. And
they also, if they persist not in their faithlessness, shall be grafted
in: for God is able to graft them in where they were before. For if thou
wast cut out from that which by nature was the wild olive, and wast
grafted against nature into the fruitful olive, how much more shall
these, the natural branches, be grafted into the fruitful stock from
whence they sprang ?

For I would not have you ignorant, brethren, of this mystery, lest you
should be wise in your own conceits; that blindness upon a part of
Israel until the full body of the Gentiles shall have come in. And so
all Israel shall be saved, as it is written, “Out of Zion shall come the
deliverer, and He shall turn away ungodliness from Jacob. And this is my
covenant with them.” <sup>**[<sup>38</sup>](#sdfootnote38sym)**</sup>
“When I shall take away their sins.”
<sup>**[<sup>39</sup>](#sdfootnote39sym)**</sup>

In respect of the Glad tidings [that it might be borne to the Gentiles],
they are God’s enemies for your sakes; but in respect of God’s choice,
they are His beloved for their fathers’ sakes: for no change of purpose
can annul God’s gifts and call. And as in times past you were yourselves
disobedient to God, but have now received mercy upon their disobedience;
so in this present time they have been disobedient, that upon your
obtaining mercy they likewise might obtain mercy. For God has shut up
all together under disobedience, that He might have mercy upon all. O
depth of the bounty, and the wisdom and the knowledge of God; how
unfathomable are His judgments, and how unsearchable His paths ! Yea,
“Who hath known the mind of the Lord, or who hath been His counselor?”
<sup>**[<sup>40</sup>](#sdfootnote40sym)**</sup> Or, “Who hath first
given unto God, that he should deserve a recompense?”
<sup>**[<sup>41</sup>](#sdfootnote41sym)**</sup>

For from Him is the beginning, and by Him the life, and in Him the end
of all things.

Unto Him be glory forever. Amen.

##### Romans 12

I EXHORT you, therefore, brethren, as you would acknowledge the mercies
of God, to offer your bodies a living sacrifice, holy and well pleasing
unto God, which is your reasonable worship. And be not conformed to the
fashion of this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind,
that by an unerring test you may discern the will of God, even that
which is good, and acceptable, and perfect.

For through the grace bestowed upon me [as Christ’s Apostle], I warn
every man among you not to think of himself more highly that he ought to
thing, but to seek a sober mind, according to the measure of faith which
God has given him.

For as we have many limbs, which are all members of the same body,
though they have not all the same office; so we ourselves are all one
body in Christ, and fellow members one of another; but we have gifts
according to the grace which God has given us. He that has the gift of
prophecy, let him exercise it according to the proportion of his faith.

He that has the gift of ministration, let him minister; let the teacher
labor in teaching; the exhorter, in exhortation. He who gives, let him
give in singleness of mind. He who rules, let him rule diligently. He
who shows pity, let him show it gladly. Let your love be without
feigning. Abhor that which is evil; cleave to that which is good. Be
kindly affectioned one to another in brotherly love; in honor let each
set his neighbor above himself. Let your diligence be free from sloth,
let your spirit grow with zeal; be true bondsmen of your Lord.

In your hope be joyful; in your sufferings be steadfast; in your prayers
be unwearied. Be liberal to the needs of the saints. And show
hospitality to the stranger. Bless your persecutors; yea, bless, and
curse not. Rejoice with them that rejoice, and weep with them that weep.
Be of one mind amongst yourselves. Set not your heart on high things,
but suffer yourselves to be borne along with the lowly. Be not wise in
your own conceits. Repay no man evil for evil. “Be provident of good
report in the sight of all men.”
<sup>**[<sup>42</sup>](#sdfootnote42sym)**</sup> If it be possible, as
far as lies in yourselves, keep peace with all men.

Revenge not yourselves, beloved, but give place to the wrath [of
God];for it is written, “Vengeance is mine, I will repay, saith the
Lord.” <sup>**[<sup>43</sup>](#sdfootnote43sym)**</sup> Therefore, “If
thine enemy hunger, feed him; if he thirst, give him drink; for in so
doing, thou shalt heap coals of fire upon his head.” Be not overcome by
evil, but overcome evil with good.

##### Romans 13

Let every man submit himself to the authorities of government; for all
authority comes from God, and the authorities which now are, have been
set in their place by God: therefore, he who sets himself against the
authority, resists the ordinance of God; and they who resist will bring
judgment upon themselves. For the magistrate is not terrible to good
works, but to evil. Wilt thou be fearless of his authority? do what is
good, and thou shalt have its praise. For the magistrate is God’s
minister to thee for good.

But if thou art an evil doer, be afraid; for not by chance does he bear
the sword [of justice], being a minister of God, appointed to do
vengeance upon the guilty. Wherefore you must needs submit, not only for
fear, but also for conscience sake; for this also is the cause why you
pay tribute, because the authorities of government are officers of God’s
will, and this is the very end of their daily work.

Pay, therefore, to all their dues; tribute to whom tribute is due;
customs to whom customs; fear to whom fear; honor to whom honor. Owe no
debt to any man, save the debt of love alone; for he who loves his
neighbor has fulfilled the law. For the law which says, “Thou shalt not
commit adultery; thou shalt do no murder; thou shalt not steal; thou
shalt not bear false witness; thou shalt not covet.”
<sup>**[<sup>44</sup>](#sdfootnote44sym)**</sup> Love works no ill to
his neighbor; therefore Love is the fulfillment of the Law.

This do, knowing the season wherein we stand, and that for us it is high
time to awake out of sleep, for our salvation is already nearer than
when we first believed. The night is far spent, the day is at hand; let
us therefore cast off the works of darkness, and let us put on the armor
of light. Let us walk (as in the light of day) in seemly guise; not in
rioting and drunkenness, not in dalliance and wantonness, not in strife
and envying. But clothe yourselves with the Lord Jesus Christ, and take
no thought to please your fleshly lusts.

##### Romans 14

Him who is weak in his faith receive into your fellowship, imposing no
determinations of doubtful questions.
<sup>**[<sup>45</sup>](#sdfootnote45sym)**</sup> Some have faith that
they may eat all things; others, who are weak, eat herbs alone.
<sup>**[<sup>46</sup>](#sdfootnote46sym)**</sup> Let not him who eats
despise him who abstains, nor let him who abstains judge him who eats,
for God has received him among His people.

Who art thou that judges another’s servants? To his own master he must
stand or fall; but he shall be made to stand, for God is able to set him
up.

There are some who esteem one day above another; and again there are
some who esteem all days alike; let each be fully persuaded in his own
mind. He who regards the day, regards it unto the Lord. He who eats,
eats unto the Lord, for he gives God thanks; and he who abstains,
abstains unto the Lord, and gives thanks to God likewise.

For not unto himself does anyone of us either live or die; but whether
we live, we live unto the Lord, or whether we die, we die unto the Lord;
therefore, living or dying, we are the Lord’s. For to this end Christ
died, and lived again, that He might be Lord both of the dead and of the
living.

But thou, why judgest thou thy brother? Or thou, why despisest thou thy
brother? for we shall all stand before the judgment seat of Christ. And
so it is written, “As I live, saith the Lord, every knee shall bow to
me, and every tongue shall acknowledge God.”
<sup>**[<sup>47</sup>](#sdfootnote47sym)**</sup>

So, then, everyone of us shall give account to God [not of his brethren,
but] of himself. Let us then judge each other no more, but let this
rather be your judgment, to put no stumbling block or cause of falling
in your brother’s way. I know and am persuaded in the Lord Jesus, that
nothing is in itself unclean; but whatever a man thinks unclean, is
unclean to him. And if for meat thou grievest thy brother, thou hast
ceased to walk by the rule of love. Destroy not him with thy meat for
whom Christ died.

I say then, let not your good be evil spoken of. For the kingdom of God
is not meat and drink, but righteousness, and peace, and joy in the Holy
Spirit; and he who lives in these things as Christ’s bondsman is well
pleasing to God, and cannot be condemned by men. Let us therefore follow
the things which make for peace, such as may build us up together into
one. Destroy not thou the work of God for a meal of meat. All things
indeed [in themselves] are pure; but to him that eats with stumbling all
is evil. It is good neither to eat flesh, nor to drink wine, nor to do
any other thing, whereby thy brother is made to stumble. Hast thou faith
[that nothing is unclean]? keep it for thine own comfort before God.
Happy is he who condemns not himself by his own judgment.

But he who doubts, is thereby condemned if he eats, because he has not
faith that he may eat; and every faithless deed is sin.

##### Romans 15

And we, who are strong, ought to bear the infirmities of the weak, and
not to please ourselves. Let each of us please his neighbor for good
ends, to build him up. For so Christ pleased not Himself, but in Him was
fulfilled that which is written, “The reproaches of them that reproached
thee fell upon me.” <sup>**[<sup>48</sup>](#sdfootnote48sym)**</sup> For
our instruction is the end of all which was written of old; that by
steadfast endurance, and by the counsel of the Scriptures, we may hold
fast our hope. Now may God, from whom both counsel and endurance come,
grant you to be of one mind together, according to the will of Christ,
that you may all [both strong and weak], with one heart and voice,
glorify the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. Wherefore, receive
one another into fellowship, to the glory of God, even as Christ also
received you.

For I say that Jesus Christ came to be a minister of the circumcision,
to maintain the truthfulness of God, and confirm the promises made to
our fathers; and that the Gentiles should praise God for His mercy, as
it is written, “For this cause I will acknowledge thee among the
Gentiles, and will sing unto thy name.”
<sup>**[<sup>49</sup>](#sdfootnote49sym)**</sup> And again it is said,
“Rejoice, ye Gentiles, with His people;”
<sup>**[<sup>50</sup>](#sdfootnote50sym)**</sup> and again, “Praise the
Lord, all ye Gentiles, and laud Him, all ye peoples.”
<sup>**[<sup>51</sup>](#sdfootnote51sym)**</sup> and again Esaias says,
“There shall come the root of Jesse, and he that shall rise to reign
over the Gentiles; in him shall the Gentiles hope.”
<sup>**[<sup>52</sup>](#sdfootnote52sym)**</sup>

Now may the God of hope fill you with all joy and peace in believing,
that you may abound in hope, through the mighty working of the Holy
Spirit.

But I am persuaded, my brethren, not only by the reports of others, but
by my own judgment, that you are already full of goodness, filled with
all knowledge, and able, of yourselves to admonish one another. Yet I
have written to you somewhat boldly in parts [of this letter], to remind
you [rather than to teach you], because of that gift of grace which God
bestowed upon me that I should be a minister of Jesus Christ to the
Gentiles, serving in the Glad tidings of God, that I might present the
Gentiles to God, as a priest presents the offering,
<sup>**[<sup>53</sup>](#sdfootnote53sym)**</sup> a sacrifice well
pleasing to Him, hallowed by the working of the Holy Spirit. I have
therefore the power of boasting in Christ Jesus, concerning the things
of God; for I will not date [as some do] to glorify myself for the
labors of others, but I will speak only of the works which Christ has
wrought by me, to bring the Gentiles to obedience, by word and deed,
with the might of signs and wonders, the might of the Spirit of God; so
that going forth from Jerusalem, and round about as far as Illyricum, I
have fulfilled my task in bearing the Glad tidings of Christ. And my
ambition was to bear it according to this rule, [that I should go] not
where the name of Christ was known (lest I should be building on another
man’s foundation), but [where it was unheard] ; as it is written, “To
whom He was not spoken of, they shall see; and the people who have not
heard shall understand.”
<sup>**[<sup>54</sup>](#sdfootnote54sym)**</sup>

This is the cause why I have often been hindered from coming to you. But
now that I have no longer room enough [for my labors] in these regions,
and have had a great desire to visit you these many years, so soon as I
take my journey into Spain, I will come to you; for I hope to see you on
my way, and to be set forward on my journey thither by you, after I have
in some measure satisfied my desire of your company.

But now I am going to Jerusalem, being employed in a ministration to the
saints. For the provinces of Macedonia and Achaia have willingly
undertaken to make a certain contribution for the poor among the saints
in Jerusalem. Willingly, I say, they have done this; and indeed they are
their debtors; for since the Gentiles have shared in the spiritual goods
of the brethren in Jerusalem, they owe it in return to minister to them
in their earthly goods. When, therefore, I have finished this task, and
have given to them in safety the fruit of this collection, I will come
from thence, by you, into Spain. And I am sure that when I come to you,
my coming will receive the fullness of Christ’s blessing. But I beseech
you, brethren, by our Lord Jesus Christ, and by the love which the
Spirit gives, to help me in my conflict with your prayers to God on my
behalf, that I may be delivered from the disobedient in Judea, and that
the service which I have undertaken for Jerusalem may be favorably
received by the Saints; that so I may come to you in joy, by God’s will,
and may be refreshed in your companionship. The God of peace be with you
all. Amen.

##### Romans 16

I commend to you Phoebe our sister, who is a ministering servant of the
Church at Cenchrea; that you may receive here in the Lord, as the saints
should receive one another, and aid her in any business wherein she
needs your help; for she has herself aided many, and me also among the
rest.

Greet Priscilla and Aquila, my fellow laborers in the work of Christ
Jesus, who, to save my life, laid down their own necks; who are thanked,
not by me alone, but by all the Churches of the Gentiles. Greet likewise
the Church which assembles at their house.

Salute Epaenetus my dearly beloved, who is the first fruits of Asia unto
Christ.

Salute Mary, who labored much for me.

Salute Andronicus and Junias, my kinsmen and fellow prisoners, who are
well known among the Apostles, and who were also in Christ before me.

Salute Amplias, my dearly beloved in the Lord.

Salute Urbanus, my fellow workman in Christ’s service, and Stachys my
dearly beloved.

Salute Apelles, who has been tried and found trustworthy in Christ’s
work.

Salute those who are of the household of Aristobulus.

Salute Herodion, my kinsman.

Salute those of the household of Narcissus who

are in the Lord’s fellowship.

Salute Tryphena and Tryphosa, the faithful laborers in the Lord’s
service.

Salute Persis the dearly beloved, who has labored much in the Lord.

Salute Rufus, the chosen in the Lord and his mother, who is also mine.

Salute Asyncritus, Phlegon, Hermas, Patrobas, Hermes, and the brethren
who are with them.

Salute Philologus, and Julia, Nereus and. his sister, and Olympas, and
all the saints who are with them.

Salute one another with the kiss of holiness.

The Churches of Christ [in Achaia] salute you.

I exhort you, brethren, to keep your eyes upon those who cause
divisions, and cast stumbling blocks in the way of others, contrary to
the teaching which you have learned. Shun them that are such; for the
master whom they serve is not our Lord Jesus Christ, but their own
belly: and by their fair speaking and flattery they deceive the hearts
of the guileless. I say this, because the tidings of your obedience have
been told throughout the world. On your own behalf, therefore, I
rejoice: but I wish you not only to be simple in respect of evil, but to
be wise for good. And the God of peace shall bruise Satan under your
feet speedily.

The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you.

Timotheus, my fellow laborer, and Lucius, and Jason, and Sosipater, my
kinsmen, salute you. I, Tertius, who have written this letter, salute
you in the Lord.

Gaius, who is the host, not of me alone, but also of the whole Church,
salutes you.

Erastus, the treasurer of the city, and the brother Quartus, salute you.

The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Now I commend you
unto Him who is able to keep you steadfast, according to my Glad
tidings, and the preaching of Jesus Christ whereby is unveiled the
mystery which was kept secret in eternal times of old, but has now been
brought to light, and made known to all the Gentiles by the Scriptures
of the Prophets, by command of the eternal God; that the Gentiles might
be led to the obedience of faith unto Him, the only wise God, I commend
you through Jesus Christ; to whom be glory forever. AMEN

[1](#sdfootnote1anc) This article is from Conybeare, W. J. and Howson,
J. S, *The Life and Epistles of St. Paul, Chapter 19*

[2](#sdfootnote2anc) In applying this term Antinomian to the ‘all things
lawful’ party at Corinth, we do not of course mean that all their
opinions were the same with those which have been held by modern
(so-called) Antinomians. But their characteristic (which was a belief
that the restraints of outward law were abolished for Christians) seems
more accurately expressed by the term Antinomian, than by any other.

[3](#sdfootnote3anc) 2 Cor. 2:6-8

[4](#sdfootnote4anc) 2 Cor. 8:10 and 2 Cor. 9:2

[5](#sdfootnote5anc) We cannot, perhaps, infer anything as to the
composition of the Church at Rome, from the fact that St. Paul writes to
them in Greek instead of Latin; because Hellenistic Greek was (as we
have seen, p.32) his own native tongue, in which he seems always to have
written; and if any of the Roman Christians did not understand that
language, interpreters were not wanting in their own body who could
explain it to them. Unquestionably, however, he assumes that his readers
are familiar with the Septuagint (Rom. iv. 18). It is rather remarkable
that Tertius, who acted as St. Paul’s amanuensis, was apparently (to
judge from his name) a Roman Christian of the Latin section of the
Church. It cannot, of course, be supposed that all the Roman Christians
were of Oriental origin and Grecian speech. Yet it is certain that Greek
remained the prevailing language in the Church of Rome for several
centuries.

[6](#sdfootnote6anc) The date of this Epistle is very precisely fixed by
the following statements contained in it :

(1.) St. Paul had never yet been to Rome (1:11, 13, 15).

(2.) He was intending to go to Rome, after first visiting Jerusalem
(15:23-28). This was exactly his purpose during his three months’
residence at Corinth. See Acts 19:21.

(3.) He was going to bear a collection of alms from Macedonia and Achaia
to Jerusalem (15:26 and 31). This he did carry from Corinth to Jerusalem
at the close of this three months’ visit. See Acts 24:17.

(4.) When he wrote the Epistle, Timothy, Sosipater, Gaius, and Erastus
were with him (xvi. 21, 23) ; of these, the first three are expressly
mentioned in the Acts as having been with him at Corinth during the
three months’ visit (see Acts 20:4) ; and the last, Erastus, was himself
a Corinthian, and had been sent shortly before from Ephesus (Acts 19:22)
with Timothy on the way to Corinth. Compare 1 Cor. 16:10, 11.

(5.) Phoebe, a deaconess of the Corinthian port of Cenchrea, was the
bearer of the Epistle (16:1) to Rome.

[7](#sdfootnote7anc) St. Paul uses the word for ‘Greek’ as the singular
of the word for ‘Gentiles’ because the singular of the latter is not
used in the sense *of a Gentile*. Also, the plural ‘Greeks’ is used when
*individual Gentiles* are meant; ‘Gentiles’ when *Gentiles collectively*
are spoken of.

[8](#sdfootnote8anc) Not Righteousness, the attribute of God, but the
righteousness which God considers such; and which must, therefore, be
the perfection of man’s moral nature. This righteousness may be looked
on under two aspects; 1. *in itself*, as a moral condition of man; 2.
*in its consequences*, as involving a freedom from guilt in the sight of
God. Under the first aspect it is the possession of a certain
disposition of mind called *faith*. Under the second aspect it is
regarded as something reckoned by God to the account of man – *an
acquittal of past offenses*.

[9](#sdfootnote9anc) The Jews were “hearers of the Law’ in their
synagogues, every Sabbath.

[10](#sdfootnote10anc) In this most difficult passage we must bear in
mind that tit. Paul is constantly referring to the arguments of his
opponents, which were familial’ to his readers at Rome, but are not so
to ourselves. Hence the apparently abrupt and elliptical character of
the argument, and the necessity of supplying \~something to make the
connection intelligible.

[11](#sdfootnote11anc) The land which thou seest, to thee will I give
it, and to thy seed for ever,’ Gen. 13:15. St. Paul (according to his
frequent practice in dealing with the Old Testament) allegorizes this
promise. So that, as Abraham is (allegorically viewed) the type of
Christian faith, he is also the heir of the world, whereof the
sovereignty belongs to his spiritual children, by virtue of their union
with their Divine Head.

[12](#sdfootnote12anc) Literally, “wrath”; i.e. the wrath of God
punishing the transgressions of the Law.

[13](#sdfootnote13anc) Gen. xvii. 5. In such quotations, a few words
were sufficient to recall the whole passage to Jewish readers;
therefore, to make them intelligible to modern readers, it is sometimes
necessary to give the context. It should be observed that this quotation
alone is sufficient to prove that the majority of those to whom St. Paul
was writing were familiar with the Septuagint version; for to none
others could such a curtailed citation be intelligible. The hypothesis
that the Homan Christians had originally been Jewish proselytes, of
Gentile birth, satisfies this condition. See the introductory remarks to
this Epistle.

[14](#sdfootnote14anc) Literally, *have become partakers of a vital
union* [as that of a graft with the tree into which it is grafted] *of
the representation of his death* [in baptism]. The meaning appears to
be, *if we have shared the reality of his death, whereof we have
undergone the likeness*.

[15](#sdfootnote15anc) Literally, *condemned*, i.e. *put it to rebuke,
worsted it*. Compare Heb. 11:7

[16](#sdfootnote16anc) The contrast between the victory thus obtained by
the spirit, with the previous subjection of the soul to the flesh, is
thus beautifully described by Tertullian : “When the Soul is wedded to
the Spirit, the Flesh follows-like the handmaid who follows her wedded
mistress to the husband’s home-being thenceforward no longer the servant
of the Soul, but of the Spirit.”

[17](#sdfootnote17anc) Adoption to sonship; by which a slave was
emancipated and made ‘no longer a slave but a son.’ (Gal. 4:7.) In one
sense St. Paul taught that Christians had already received this adoption
(compare Rom. 8:15, Gal. 4:5, Eph. 1:1) ; they were already made the
sons of God in Christ. (Rom. 8:16, Gal. 3:26.) So, in a yet lower sense,
the Jews under the old dispensation had the adoption to sonship; see
9:4. But in this passage he teaches us that this adoption is not perfect
during the present life; there is still a higher sense, in which it is
future, and the object of earnest longing to those who are already in
the lower sense the sons of God.

[18](#sdfootnote18anc) Jeremiah 18:6, not quoted literally, but
according to the sense. In this and in other similar references to the
Old Testament, a few words were sufficient to recall the whole passage
to St. Paul’s Jewish readers (compare Rom. 4:18) ; therefore. to
comprehend his argument, it is often necessary to refer to the context
of the passage from which he quotes. The passage in Jeremiah referred to
is as follows :-*Then I went down to the potter’s house, and behold he
wrought a work on the wheels. And the vessel that he made of clay was
marred in the hands of the potter; so he made it again another vessel,
as seemed good to the potter to make it. O house of Israel, cannot I do
with you as this potter, saith the Lord. Behold, as the clay is in the
potter’s hand, so are ye in my hand, O house of Israel. At what instant
I shall speak concerning a nation and concerning a kingdom, to pluck up
and to pull down and to destroy it; if that nation against whom I have
pronounced turn from their evil, I will repent of the evil that I
thought to do unto them. And at what instant I shall speak concerning a
nation and concerning a kingdom, to build and to plant it; if it do evil
in my sight, that it obey not my voice, then I will repent of the good
wherewith I said I would benefit them.* Similar passages might be quoted
from the Apocryphal books; and it might be said that the above cited
passage of Isaiah was referred to here. Yet this from Jeremiah is so
apposite to St. Paul’s argument, that he probably refers especially to
it.

[19](#sdfootnote19anc) Isaiah 28:16, apparently from LXX, but not
verbatim, “stone of stumbling and rock of offence” being interpolated
and not found exactly anywhere in Isaiah. In Isa. 8:14 there are words
that are nearly similar.

[20](#sdfootnote20anc) The word for knowledge here is very forcible; and
is the same which is used in 1 Cor 13:12 and Col. 1:10.

[21](#sdfootnote21anc) Levit. 18:5 (LXX) ; quoted also Gal. 3:12.

[22](#sdfootnote22anc) Deut. 30:12. St. Paul here, though he quotes from
the LXX. (verse 8 is verbatim), yet slightly alters it, so as to adapt
it better to illustrate his meaning. His main statement is, , the
Glad-tidings of salvation is offered, and needs only to be accepted; to
this he transfers the description which Moses has given of the Law, viz.
’the Lord is nigh thee; and the rest of the passage of Deuteronomy he
applies in a higher sense than that in which Moses had written it
(according to the true Christian mode of using the Old Testament), not
to the Mosaic Law, but to the Gospel of Christ. The passage in
Deuteronomy is as follows; “This commandment which I command thee this
day is not hidden from thee, neither is it far off, It is not in heaven
that thou shouldst say, Who shall go up for us to heaven and bring it
unto us, that we may hear it and do it? Neither is it beyond the sea
that thou shouldest say, who shall go over the sea for us and bring it
unto us, that we may hear it and do it? But the word is very nigh unto
thee, in thy mouth and in thy heart, that thou mayest do it.”

[23](#sdfootnote23anc) Isa. 28:16. See 9:33.

[24](#sdfootnote24anc) Joel 2:32, LXX.

[25](#sdfootnote25anc) This is a justification of the mission of the
Apostles to the Gentiles, which was an offence to the Jews. See Acts
22:22.

[26](#sdfootnote26anc) Isa. 52:7, LXX

[27](#sdfootnote27anc) Isa. 53:7, apparently from the Hebrew and not
from LXX.

[28](#sdfootnote28anc) There is no English word which precisely
represents **ajkoh**in its subjective as well as objective meaning. See
note on 1 Thess. 2:13.

[29](#sdfootnote29anc) Psalm 19:4 (LXX). In the psalm this is said of
‘the heavens’ which by their wonderful phenomena declare the glory of
their Creator. There seems to be no comparison in the psalm between *the
heavens* and *the word of God*. Paul here quotes the Old Testament, not
in its primary meaning, but applying it in a higher sense, or perhaps
only as a poetical illustration. As to the assertion of the universal
preaching of the Gospel, Dean Alford well observes that it is not made
in a *geographical*but in ***a**religious* sense. The Gospel was now
preached to all nations, and not to the Jews along.

[30](#sdfootnote30anc) Deut 32:21, LXX

[31](#sdfootnote31anc) Isa. 65:1 (LXX with transposition)

[32](#sdfootnote32anc) Isa. 65:2 (LXX)

[33](#sdfootnote33anc) Alluding to Psalm 94:14, *Jehovah shall not
utterly cast out His people*. Perhaps Paul’s antagonists accused him of
contradicting this prophecy.

[34](#sdfootnote34anc) 1 Kings 19:10.

[35](#sdfootnote35anc) This quotation seems to be compounded of Deut
29:4 and Isaiah 29:10.

[36](#sdfootnote36anc) Psalm 69:23, 24, almost verbatim.

[37](#sdfootnote37anc) Literally, *I say then, shall we conclude that …*

[38](#sdfootnote38anc) Isaiah 59:20.

[39](#sdfootnote39anc) Isaiah 27:9

[40](#sdfootnote40anc) Isaiah 40:13 (LXX, nearly verbatim)

[41](#sdfootnote41anc) Job 41:11 (according to the sense of the Hebrew,
but not the LXX)

[42](#sdfootnote42anc) This is a quotation nearly verbatim from Prov.
3:4 (LXX).

[43](#sdfootnote43anc) Deut. 30:35 (LXX)

[44](#sdfootnote44anc) Lev. 19:18

[45](#sdfootnote45anc) Literally, *not acting so as to make
distinctions*[or *determinations*]*which belong to disputatious
reasoning.*

[46](#sdfootnote46anc) These were probably Christians of Jewish birth,
who so feared lest they should (without knowing it) eat meat which had
been offered to idols or was otherwise ceremonially unclean (which might
easily happen in such a place as Rome), that they abstained from meat
altogether. Thus Josephus mentions some Jewish priests who, from such
conscientious scruples, abstained while prisoners in Rome from all
animal food. So Daniel and his fellow-captives in Babylon refused the
king’s meat and wine, and ate pulse alone, that they might not defile
themselves (Dan. 1:8-12). The tone and precepts of this chapter of
Romans correspond with 1 Cor. 8.

[47](#sdfootnote47anc) Isaiah 45:23 (LXX)

[48](#sdfootnote48anc) Psalm 69:9

[49](#sdfootnote49anc) Psalm 18:49

[50](#sdfootnote50anc) Deut. 32:43

[51](#sdfootnote51anc) Psalm 117:1

[52](#sdfootnote52anc) Isaiah 11:1o

[53](#sdfootnote53anc) Literally, *a minister of Jesus Christ unto the
Gentiles, a priest presenting an offering in respect of the Glad-tidings
of God, that the Gentiles might be offered up as an offering
well-pleasing unto Him.* The same thing is said under a somewhat
difference metaphor in 2 Cor. 11:2.

[54](#sdfootnote54anc) Isaiah 52:15.

