---
title: "Doctrine of Preaching"
indexTitle: "Preaching, Doctrine of"
pdf: "preaching.pdf"
description: "Preaching, Doctrine of -  Word study beginning in Titus 1:3 - KEIRUGMA; the true practice of Bible presentation."
tableOfContents: false
template: topic.jade
---

Definition and Etymology

The word “preach” is found in many places in the New Testament (KJV);
however, it has been translated from several different Greek words. For
example, in 1 Cor. 1:17, the phrase “preach the Gospel” comes from
eujaggelivzw (**euangelidzo**); while in 1:18 we see the phrase “the
preaching of the cross”. You can
see that the translators took some liberties with their use of the word
“preach”.

The Greek verb **κειρυσω** (**keiruso**) was commonly used in ancient times
to refer to public proclamation or public teaching, and there are many
NT verses where it is found. A complete listing can be found in a Greek
concordance.

The noun **κειρυξ** (**keirux**) refers to the “proclaimer; publisher;
messenger” who is making the proclamation. Thus,

1 Tim. 2:7, “Whereunto I (Paul) am ordained a preacher (**keirux**), and
an apostle, (I speak the truth in Christ, and lie not;) a teacher of the
Gentiles in faith and truth.” (Likewise in 2 Tim. 1:11)

In 2 Pet. 2:5, Abraham is called a “preacher (**keirux**) of
righteousness”.

The word **keirux** was used in several ways in ancient times. The
**keirux** was a “publisher”, or “herald”, in the sense that he would
broadcast important news to townspeople. The person making official
proclamations or announcements to the public was called **keirux**, a
sort of town cryer.

A man assigned to carry messages between enemies on a battlefield was
also called **keirux**.

The message of the **keirux** is the **κειρυγμα** (**keirugma**). The
**keirugma** is what was given to the **keirux** to proclaim. The
originator of the message may have been a battlefield officer or a
public official.

In the Bible, the **keirux** is the preacher, the **keirugma** is his
message, and keiruso is the act of preaching.

The English word “preaching” would be correct if it were used in its
primary etymological sense of “proclaiming before the public”, the
meaning which is derived from the Latin,*praedicere*. However, the
modern use of “delivering a moral discourse or religious message of any
kind and in any manner” does not give the meaning of **keirugma**. There
is no finger-pointing or arm waving in **keirugma**.

Scripture References Using keirugma

In Matt. 12:41 and Luke 11:32, Jonah’s message to the Ninevites is
called keirugma . Jonah’s job was to proclaim God’s message of salvation
in the Assyrian capital.

1 Cor. 1:17-22, "For Christ sent me not to baptize, but to preach the
gospel (**euangelidzw**): not with wisdom of words, lest the cross of
Christ should be made of none effect.

For the preaching (**logos**) of the cross is to them that perish
foolishness; but unto us which are saved it is the power of God.

For it is written, I will destroy the wis­dom of the wise, and will
bring to nothing the understanding of the prudent.

Where is the wise? where is the scribe? where is the disputer of this
world? hath not God made foolish the wisdom of this world?

[Note: to “stop the mouths” of those who are opposed (Titus 1:9-11), the
Lord employs preachers to bring an unusual message.]

For after that in the wisdom of God the world by wisdom knew not God, it
pleased God by the foolishness (**morias)** of preaching (**keirugma**)
to save them that believe.

For the Jews require a sign, and the Greeks seek after wisdom:

But we preach (**keiruso**) Christ crucified, unto the Jews a
stumblingblock, and unto the Greeks foolishness;

But unto them which are called, both Jews and Greeks, Christ the power
of God, and the wisdom of God.

1 Cor. 2:1-10

Titus 1:3

Principles of keirugma

1. The emphasis of **keirugma** is on the message. Someone in authority,
who has something to communicate, gives the message to a messenger, the
**keirux**, preacher, who passes the information on to someone else,
usually in a public setting. It is expected that there will be attentive
hearers who will be receptive to the message and who expect to derive
some benefit from the message.

2. The messenger does not proclaim his own viewpoint, his own political
opinions, his own grievances. The message is another person’s
communication. The public proclamation is not the platform for him to
expound his own theories, to support his side in a debate, talk about
his own projects, or get things off his chest. The **keirux** does not
call the people together for an important proclamation, then, instead,
lecture them on some private matter not associated with the real
message.

3. The Bible teacher gets his **keirugma** from God Himself, as revealed
in the Word of God. Correct preaching is done by making the message
clear to the people who are listening to the proclamation. Public
teaching protects the privacy of the believer. Confining himself to the
message, the preacher does not unduly influence the listeners with
personality dynamics or bullying techniques. The listener can accept or
reject the message in private.

