---
title: "Pride (Arrogance)"
pdf: "pride.pdf"
description: "Pride (Arrogance) -  Whenever a Christian fails to execute the plan of God for his life, sinful pride is the primary reason and motivating cause."
template: topic.jade
---

“**These six things doth the Lord hate: yea, seven are an abomination
unto him: a proud look …” Proverbs 6:16-17**

Introduction

God has a plan for your life. God is perfect. Therefore, His plan is
perfect.

It is impossible for you with your sin nature to execute the plan of God
for your life. Therefore, God has provided through His grace a way for
you to execute His plan, purpose, and will during your lifetime.

Whenever a Christian fails in executing the plan of God for his life,
sinful pride is the primary reason and motivating cause.

Pride is the basic mental attitude sin. As you will see in this study,
sinful pride or arrogance precedes and supports all of the sinful mental
attitudes the sin nature produces.

Satan was the first creature guilty of pride. His motivation of pride is
found in one line of Isa. 14:14, “I will make myself like the Most High
God.” The original sin of pride is amplified in the following passage.

**Ezek. 28:14-17**

A Description of Sinful Pride

Pride is a lofty self-respect totally apart from reality. It is high
esteem of oneself from some imagined or real superiority.

Pride is the antithesis of grace. The believer who is arrogant is
totally blind to the grace of God.

Pride is synonymous with vanity, which is empty pride in regard to one’s
person, attainments, or possessions coupled with an excessive desire to
be noticed, a lust for attention, lust for approval or praise from
others.

Pride is the pomposity of vain glory. It is supercilious and haughty
contempt of others.

Pride supports a whole array of sins, such as jealousy, bitterness,
vindictiveness, implacability, revenge motivation, revenge tactics, self
pity, conceit, inordinate ambition and competition, slander, gossip and
maligning.

Pride is a mental attitude sin which overflows into the motivation,
decision making and activity of the individual. Pride includes several
different concepts.

• Egotism. This is an excessive preoccupation with self and must be
distinguished from ego, which is self consciousness and is perfectly
normal.

• Vanity. This is self admiration and an excessive desire to be admired
by others. Hence, vanity is easily flattered and patronized.

• Conceit. This is exaggerated estimate of one’s abilities and
attainments.

Scriptures Related to the Sin of Pride

**Prov. 11:2, "**When pride comes, then come dishonor. But with the
humble is wisdom.”

Prov. 16:18, “Pride precedes destruction, And a haughty spirit before
stumbling.”

**Rom. 12:3,**"For though the grace given to me I say to every man among
you not to think more highly of himself than he ought to think; but to
think so as to have sound judgment, as God has allotted to each a
measure of faith.”

Pride is defined in terms of the sin of jealousy in

**James 3:14-16,**“But if you have bitter jealousy and inordinate
ambition in your heart, stop being arrogant, and stop lying against the
truth. This pseudo wisdom is not that which comes from above, but is
earthly, natural, and demonic. For where jealousy and inordinate
ambition exist there is disorder and every evil deed.”

**Prov. 13:10, "**Through pride comes strife, but wisdom is with those
who receive instruction**.”**

**1 Pet. 5:5, "**Likewise you younger men be subject to the elder , and
all of you cloth yourselves with humility toward one another. \`For God
makes war against the arrogant, but He gives grace to the humble.’
Therefore, humble yourselves under the powerful hand of God, that He may
promote you at the proper time.”

Application

If God does not promote you, you are not promoted.

God promotes men and women of who have absorbed the word of God.

God promotes humble or grace oriented people.

Promotion is a matter of doctrinal inculcation and grace-orientation.

Promotion is a matter of glorifying God through the execution of the
plan of God for the believer in the church age.

Promoted believers are the invisible heroes of the church age.

**2 Tim. 3:2-7**“For men will be lovers of self, lovers of money,
boastful, arrogant, slanderers, disobedient to parents, ungrateful,
wicked, without virtue love, malicious gossips, without self control,
brutal, not lovers of God, treacherous, thoughtless, conceited, lovers
of pleasure rather than lovers of God, having a form of godliness but
having denied its power, in fact, avoid such persons as these. And among
them are those who creep into households and captivates silly women who
are loaded down with sins and lead on by their multifarious lusts,
always learning but never able to come to metabolized knowledge of the
truth.”

The Arrogance of Nations Brings Them Under Divine Discipline

**Lev. 26:19, “And I will break down the pride of your power. And I will
make your sky like iron and your land like bronze.”**

**Isa. 9:8-9,**“The Lord sends a message against Jacob and it falls on
Israel. And all the people know it, that is, Ephraim and the inhabitants
of Samaria, who spoke with pride and pride of heart.”

**Ezek. 7:10,**“Behold, the day is coming. Your doom has gone forth. The
rod of discipline has budded because pride has blossomed.”

Pride is Always Related to the Rejection of the Word of God

**1 Tim. 6:3-4,**“If anyone teaches a different doctrine and does not
concur with sound doctrine, those doctrines of our Lord Jesus Christ,
even doctrines pertaining to godliness , he has become arrogant,
understanding nothing. Furthermore, he has morbid obsessions about
controversies and verbal conflicts from which originate jealousy,
discord, evil speculation.”

Pride distracts the believer from doctrine. Pride divorces the believer
from reality, both personal and historical. Pride is the corruptor of
the soul and the sign that the sin nature is dominating the soul.

Pride destroys capacity for life, love and happiness.

The Effects of Pride

The arrogant person rejects authority.

Pride motivates emotional sins, such as: fear, worry, anxiety, hatred,
anger, violence, murder, guilt, guilt complex and self pity.

Pride reproduces itself in jealousy, bitterness, vindictiveness,
implacability, revenge motivation and function, inordinate ambition and
competition, gossip, slander, maligning and judging.

Pride transformed into self righteousness produces legalism.

The Solution to Pride

Occupation with Christ is the ultimate problem solving device regarding
pride. Refer to the Grace Notes on Occupation with Christ.

**Prov 8:13,** “The respect for the Lord is to hate evil, to hate pride
and pride and the evil way. And I hate a perverted mouth.”

Daily attention to the techniques of the Christian way of Life will give
you a grace mental attitude that becomes more and more free of pride as
you grow in Christ and in the knowledge of His word.

