---
title: "Prophets and Prophesying"
pdf: "prophets.pdf"
description: "Prophets and Prophesying -  An outline study of the Old Testament Prophet and his ministry."
tableOfContents: false
template: topic.jade
---

by Pastor Mark Perkins

In order to understand a book of the Bible written by a prophet, we must
first come to an understanding of the message and role of the prophet.

The purpose of prophecy was to communicate the message of God to the
people of Israel.

• The prophet received his inspiration from God the Holy Spirit.

• The prophet communicated in the written mode, and indeed the Old
Testament canon of Scripture was written entirely by men with either the
gift or office of prophecy.

• Prophets were responsible for the communication of the ritual plan of
God. All of the information concerning the system of feasts, sacrifices,
and the tabernacle/temple was communicated through prophets.

• Prophets were also responsible for the spoken communication, which
interpreted the symbology of the ritual system.

- The priests did not hold this responsibility. Their job was to go
through the ritual system exactly as prescribed.

Scripture tells the Levites to do, do, do, hundreds of times. But they
do not ever tell them to interpret.

The prophets communicated the ritual plan of God, and they interpreted
it as well. They were the ones who told the people what it all meant.

Prophecy would also fill in the gaps left by the ritual system.

• Whereas the ritual system communicated truth about God and His plan
for Israel, the prophet would communicate something more pertinent.

• The message was pertinent for the person or people for whom it was
intended.

• The message was appropriate to the time in which it was spoken.

• Whereas the ritual system was not behavior specific, prophecy was.

The nature of prophecy is twofold.

1. To interpret historical trends, and to tell the people where those
trends are leading. This is called ‘forthtelling’.

It is important to understand that events in this category do not have
to come to pass.

Many of the future events related are contingent upon the fulfillment of
some condition.

The future of these events which are forthtold is still dependent upon
human volition.

2. To relate with perfect accuracy certain future events which relate to
the nation of Israel. This is called ‘foretelling’.

The predicted events still remain pertinent to the time in which they
were predicted.

In other words, there is always a message for the present time in the
prediction of the future.

Even though the events predicted may not come to pass for hundreds, or
even thousands of years, they have some impact, some bearing on the
people to whom they were predicted.

Our understanding of the events of the tribulation and millennium have
an impact on how we conduct our lives today.

Understanding the tribulation gives us an idea of the consequences of
giving in to the cosmic system, for the tribulation reveals the cosmic
system in its unrestrained state.

Understanding the millennium gives us an idea of the consequences of
living according to the laws of Divine establishment, for the millennium
reveals the kingdom of God in its full glory.

There is a difference between the gift of prophet and the office of
prophet.

• The office of prophet was an appointed post in the nation of Israel.

Those who served in the office of prophet functioned exclusively in the
communication of prophetic information.

There are two categories of Old Testament writings written by those who
had the office of prophet. All together, this part is called “The
Prophets”.

The “former” prophets wrote the books of Joshua, Judges, Samuel, and
Kings.

The “latter” prophets wrote the books of Isaiah, Jeremiah, Ezekiel, and
the minor prophets.

The one in the office of prophet did not hold another job, but instead,
prophecy was his job.

• The gift of prophecy was an ability given by God to prophesy to one
who did not hold the office of prophet.

When God had something to say to His people, but the office of prophet
was vacant or spiritually bankrupt He gave to a few people the gift of
prophet.

These people received direct revelation from God, which led to their
communication to the people.

There are three parts to the Old Testament written by those with the
gift of prophecy. All together, this was called “The Writings”.

The prophetical books include Psalms, Proverbs, and Job.

The Megalith included those books which were read at the feasts. The
Song of Solomon was read at Passover. Ruth was read at Pentecost.
Lamentations and Ecclesiastes were read during Tabernacles. Esther was
read at Purim.

The historical books include Daniel, Ezra-Nehemiah, and Chronicles.

• Moses had both the gift and the office of prophet. He wrote the
Pentateuch, which contained the first five books of the Bible, Genesis,
Exodus, Leviticus, Deuteronomy, and Numbers. He had both because his
role in life changed from time to time.

• Elisha and Elijah held the office of prophet, but did not write. The
important parts of their ministries are recorded by other writers of
Scripture.

The nature of prophetic inspiration

• The prophet was inspired according to the standard of verbal plenary
inspiration.

• The prophet was always aware of his inspiration.

The Word of the Lord came to him (many times).

God’s hand touched his mouth, Jer 1:9.

He was standing in God’s counsel, Jer 23:22.

• The inspiration always came by the Spirit, Num 24:2; 11:29; 1 Sam
10:6,10; 19:20,23; 1 Ki 22:24; Joel 2:28-29, Hosea 9:7, “The days of
punishment are coming, the days of reckoning are at hand. Let Israel
know this. Because your sins are so many and your hostility so great,
the prophet is considered a fool, the inspired man a maniac.”

• The intermediate means were many.

Life experience, Hosea.

A visible symbol, Amos 7:7.

A dream (the subconscious mind, while asleep), Jer 31:26.

A vision (the conscious mind, while awake), Zechariah.

Direct teaching from God, Isaiah 6.

The interpretation of historical trends from Bible Truth in the right
lobe of the soul.

From training, 1 Sam 10:5, “After that you will go to Gibeah of God,
where there is a Philistine outpost. As you approach the town, you will
meet a procession of prophets coming down from the high place with
lyres, tambourines, flutes and harps being played before them, and they
will be prophesying.”

• The exhale of the prophet.

He explained the meaning of the ritual system.

He used the parable, or allegory. Hosea 6:4, “What can I do with you,
Ephraim? What can I do with you, Judah? Your love is like the morning
mist, like the early dew that disappears.”

He acted his message out in order to graphically illustrate it.

He foretold certain future events, all of which had a relevant message
during his day.

These prophecies now stand in two categories:

Those which have been fulfilled - for example, more than 300 related to
the life of Christ.

Those which have yet to be fulfilled - for example, the book of
Revelation, and parts of Daniel, Ezekiel, and other prophets.

Summary

• The Old Testament prophet was the rough equivalent of the New
Testament pastor.

• He interpreted God’s Word, he exhorted the people, he observed and
interpreted historical trends.

• He was, however, different in a few ways:

He had a lesser understanding of the full revelation of God, Mat 13:17,
“For I tell you the truth, many prophets and righteous men longed to see
what you see but did not see it, and to hear what you hear but did not
hear it.”

This is because of the age in which he lived.

This is because he lived before the incarnation of Christ.

He did not have the gift inside of himself, as those with the gift of
pastor do.

He did not have the full-time availability of the power of the Spirit,
but instead he only had it for the purpose of prophecy.

He had the power to foretell certain future events.

• The Old Testament prophet was the one who brought the Word to the
people, the one who made it clear to them. The priests did nothing of
the sort.

• The Old Testament prophet had the supernatural ability to foretell
certain future events.

