---
title: "Proselytes, Hellenists, and Hebrews"
pdf: "proselytes.pdf"
tableOfContents: true
template: topic.jade
---

##### Proselytes

A proselyte was any non-Jew who lived among the Jews.

The word “proselyte” is from the Greek **proshluto\~**, a “stranger” or
“foreigner”, a person who has come from his own people to live in a new
country, with people of another culture.

Among the people who lives among the Jews, all of those who were not
descendants of the twelve sons of Jacob, were known as “strangers,” or
“proselytes.” The Jews recognizes two types of proselytes, the
“proselytes of the gate” and the “proselytes of the covenant.”

The “proselytes of the gate” were people who wanted to live among the
Jews but who would not submit to circumcision. However, they usually
acknowledged Jehovah as the true God, avoided idolatry; but they were
not obliged to observe any of the Mosaic institutions. They were not
allowed to eat the passover or partake of any of the sacred festivals.

The “proselytes of the covenant” adopted the Jewish religion completely,
even agreeing to follow the rite of circumcision, observe all the
ceremonies of the Law. In fact, they were no different from the Jews in
their culture and practice, except that they had once been “heathen,” or
gentile. They had the same rights, spiritual and secular, as the Jews
themselves.

##### “Grecians”

The word “Greece” is from the Latin *Graeci*, the name given to them by
the Romans, who applied t the whole people the name of the first tribe
the Romans came across, the *Graioi*, a Boeotian tribe that took part in
the colonization of Cyme in Italy.

The various Greek communities referred to themselves by the name
Hellenes; they called their country Hellas, and their language the
Hellenic language [**‘h‘ellhniki glossa**]. Even today, the Greeks use
these names, and the official name for Greece is “The Hellenic Republic”
[HELLINIKI DIMOKRATIA]. A Greek person, then, is a Hellene.

**(NAS: Hellenists)** from **‘Ellenisto** The Revised Version says
“Grecian Jews,” because “Grecians,” in English, might be thought to mean
Gentile Greeks. In the NAS, “Hellenists” means Jews.

The word **Hellenist** refers to a Jew, not a Greek, who comes from
outside Palestine, from such areas of Greek influence like Alexandria or
Cyrenia (coast of Libya). The contact of Jews with Greeks first began
when Alexander forcibly settled 8,000 Jews is Egypt, in the Nile delta,
where they formed a large part of his new city, Alexandria. From Egypt
the Jews gradually spread along the whole North African coast. Jews were
also removed by Seleucus Nicantor, from Babylonia to Antioch and
Seleucia, and under various persecutions of Antiochus Epiphanes and
other Greek rulers, scattered themselves through Asia Minor, Greece,
Macedonia, and the Greek islands of the Aegean.

The majority adopted the Greek language, and many forgot the Aramaic
dialect which had been the Jews’ language since their captivity.

##### “Hebrews”

Any man was a **Jew** [**ioujdiao\~**] who could trace his descent from
Jacob. The word “Jew” is a racial identity.

A **Hebrew** was a Jew who spoke Hebrew and retained Hebrew customs,
following the ancient religion closely.

The Hebrews whose families had come from Aram were called **Arameans**.
This word refers to Aram, or Padan-Aram, the district of Mesopotamia
surrounding the city of Haran, and the territory included the city of
Damascus. Aram was the 5<sup>th</sup> son of Shem, Noah’s oldest son;
Haran was the elder son of Terah and Abraham’s brother; he was the
father of Lot. The Jews from these areas spoke Aramaic (Assyrian), as
did the Palestinian Jews of the time of Christ. Parts of the Old
Testament were written in Aramaic, and Jesus spoke Aramaic.

Note: King Ahab fought against Ben-Hadad, king of Aram, whose capital
was Damascus.

The distinction between a Hebrew and a Hellenists was a distinction
within the Jewish nation, not between the Jews and other nations. Paul
calls himself a “Hebrew of Hebrews,” that is, a Hebrew and of Hebrew
parents, speaking Hebrew and following Hebrew customs.

In this verse, both Hebrews and Hellenists are Christian believers, but
there is still the line of cleavage between the two groups, which had
the potential for conflict.

A **Hellenizer** was a Jew who followed Greek philosophy and culture
instead of the Jewish religion and practices.

