---
title: "Qualifications for Ministers"
pdf: "qualificationsforministers.pdf"
description: "an exposition of Titus 1:5-9."
template: topic.jade
---


<sup>Qualifications\\ for\\ Ministers</sup>

An exposition of Titus 1:5-9

Anyone who is to be a minister in a local church, whether pastor, elder,
Bible teacher, deacon, or in some other leadership position, must
possess the highest personal integrity, exemplary character, and
considerable spiritual skills both for communicating Bible truth and
managing the affairs of a local body.

Titus 1:5
---------

For this cause I left you in Crete, that you should set in order the
things that are wanting, and ordain elders in every city, as I had
appointed you.

“for this cause”: (**toutou charin**), “because of this grace”, the
grace mentioned in verse 4. Titus is to operate on grace principles in
dealing with the most ungracious mob of Christians in the known world.
(The Greek has the word “grace”, while the KJV leaves it out, probably
because the translator thought the reference to v. 4 was obvious. I
think it should have been re-emphasized in English. wd ]

#### “left I thee”: “I left you behind”

Paul was Titus’s last link to the rational society of grace believers,
and now this link was being cut. He was a missionary in the truest sense
of the word.

“in Crete”:

### Topic: Crete

“that you should set in order”: (**epidiorthonomai**), “to set right; to
correct; to mend a situation”

This is a situation requiring the exercise of authority. Paul has
delegated apostolic authority (authority over more than one local
church) to Titus to deal with people who acknowledge no authority. And
Titus is to get things started in the right direction.

“the things that are wanting”: (**leipw**), “the things that are
deficient, lacking, that fall short”.

NOTE WELL:

The discussion in this Epistle, of the methods that Titus is to use to
correct the problems among the believers in local churches on Crete, is
one of the most important in the New Testament with regard to solving
problems among believers.

There were many problems on Crete requiring authoritative action: false
teaching, maligning and gossip, cultural clashes, Judaism, etc. The
first chapter uses some extreme language to describe troublemakers and
those whose “mouths must be stopped”. As we will see, stopping the
mouths of those who were against sound teaching was equivalent to
putting a bit in a horse’s mouth and hauling back!

What is “wanting” on Crete? Everything! And how is Titus going to go
about putting things in order? By Bible teaching – every day in the
towns and villages of Crete. And he is going to find men of godly
character who would “hold fast the faithful word as they have been
taught”.

The people lack knowledge and application of Bible principles.
Therefore, there is no faith-rest (trust leading to peace), no
orientation to grace, no knowledge of how to use armor of God, and so
forth.

Added to this were the cultural problems peculiar to Cretans, along with
religious problems associated with both false teachers and Judaism.

“and ordain”: (**kathisteimi**), “to appoint, to put in charge, to set,
to approve”

“elders”: (**presbuteroi**), literally, “old men”; however, here
referring to maturity from the standpoint of both experience and wisdom.
The next few verses of Titus make plain what type of person is meant.

(**presbuteros)** is used in general language to refer to “the older of
the two”, or the older of two generations.

Used with definite article (**presbuteros)** refers to “the ancestors”.
However, this group of words did not carry any negative implications
such as loss of powers, etc.

Officials at local city or village councils were called
(**presbuteroi**). They had administrative and judicial functions. The
members were not necessarily older men. Various texts refer to
(**presbuteroi**) of 45, 35, and even 30 years of age.

Officers of Jewish synagogues before 70 A.D. were known as
(**presbuteroi**).

Certain members of the Sanhedrin were called (**presbuteroi**).

The English words “presbyter”, “Presbyterian”, and “priest” derive from
(**presbuteros**).

(When I was in my early forties, I had to get new eyeglasses. The doctor
said I had “presbyopia”, old man’s eyes! Tsk.)

Comment: Christian leadership emerges from the ranks. Most churches in
the New Testament times found their pastors within their own ranks; and
the gift was recognizable by the people in the congregation. This can be
compared with the manner in which deacons were chosen at first. Seven
men were chosen who were obviously controlled by the Holy Spirit; by
their fruit they were known.

“in every city”: (**kata polis**), “according to each city”

Titus’s job was to go from town to town, appointing pastors to take care
of the need for “feeding” in each city. He had to identify those who had
the communication gifts and enough doctrinal background to be ready for
training. Then, he had to train them and assign them to their posts.

Note that Titus is not commanded to import pastors. He must find the
best man in each locality, train him, and appoint him.

“as I have appointed thee”: (**diatassw**), “to arrange; to prescribe;
to direct; to command”.

Paul had given Titus detailed orders concerning church policy and
organization - a precise and detailed set of plans which took into
account the character of the people. Titus was directed to carry out the
plans for organizing the churches on Crete.

Titus 1:6
---------

If any be blameless, the husband of one wife, having faithful children
not accused of riot or unruly.

Titus 1:6-16 contain Paul’s directions to Titus regarding basic church
order and discipline. Note the need for firm and authoritative
management of the affairs of the church in Crete.

1:6-9, character and qualifications of elders and bishops

1:10,11, the duty of suppressing those who would teach for money

1:12-14, the evil character of the Cretans which demands stern treatment
and steadfast adherence to the truth

1:15,16, the condemnation of inward defilement and hypocrisy

“if any”: In the Greek, a first-class conditional statement, meaning
that the conditional statement is assumed to be true.

Paul assumes that Titus will be able to find those who qualify as
elders. Paul may already have been somewhat acquainted with the people
during his own stay on Crete and noticed that there were some emerging
leaders.

The churches on Crete were not necessarily new ones. There had been
Christians on Crete since the Day of Pentecost, some 35 or so years
previous.

“blameless”: (**anegkleitos**), the negative prefix with the adjective
meaning “chargeable; open to accusation in court”. Hence, this means,
“not chargeable with offense”, or, simply, “irreproachable”.

Col. 1:21,22, “and you…now hath he reconciled in the body of his flesh
through death, to present you holy and \*blameless\* in his sight.”

1 Tim. 3:10 – deacons are also to be blameless.

“the husband of one wife”: (**mias gunaikos aneir**), “a one-woman man”

The pastor must be monogamous. The pastor, if he is married, needs a
godly woman at his side.

“having faithful children”: or, “having children who are believers”,
children of Christian faith, rather than, simply, loyal or respectful
children.

Unbelieving children, in their older childhood and teenage years, can be
a source of pressure and great suffering in a pastor’s life. They can
even force him out of the ministry; or, as here, keep him from starting
it.

Well-behaved, godly children are a great example of the power of the
Word of God. They are evidence that the pastor and his wife have taught
the word in the home consistently and have lived for the Lord before
their children.

“not accused of riot”: (**kateigoria**), “accusation” “categorization”,
plus (**asoteis**), “dissipation, excess, reckless living”. Hence, “not
accused of reckless living; not profligate, dissolute, disorderly”.

Eph. 5:18, “Be not drunk with wine, wherein is \*excess\* …”

READ 1 Peter 4:3-5

“or unruly”: (**anupotaktos**), “insubordinate”.

There are quite a number of warnings to children to “honor” their
parents, from the ten commandments to Ephesians 6. The commands to
children are accompanied by a promise “that it may be well with you and
that you may live long on the earth”.

This sound rather benign, but it carries some very serious overtones.
You may recall that in Old Testament times among the Jews, older
children who “cursed” their parents or were otherwise implacable were
liable to death by stoning!

And notice in Romans 1, right in the middle of that long list of
terrible sins of those who reject God, is “disobedient to parents”.

In the Bible, proper response to parental authority is extremely
important. Keep in mind that the transmission of Bible doctrine and the
Christian way of life from one generation to the next is possible only
in stable families.

If parents go astray, they will fail to communicate the Word of God to
their offspring, and there will be serious reverberations in their
progeny, the “sins of the fathers being visited upon the third and
fourth generation.”

Likewise, if children are negative, disobedient, implacable, they will
fail to receive good teaching and will interrupt the process of the
communication of divine truth to future generations.

Both negative parents and negative children are the worst kind of
stumbling blocks. And there are plenty of examples in Scripture of the
Lord taking swift and severe action against those who hinder the gospel
or who cause unbelievers or weaker brethren to be offended.

Examples are Ananias and Sapphira and Herod, among others. And remember
Christ’s admonition not to prevent the little children from coming to
him, and warning that “it would be better that a millstone be hanged
around his neck … than that he should cause one of these little ones to
stumble.”

All of this emphasizes how important it is in a pastor’s family that
both the father (the pastor) and the children be yielded to God’s
authority.

Titus 1:7
---------

For a bishop must be blameless, as the steward of God, not self-willed,
not soon angry, not given to wine, not a striker, not given to filthy
lucre.

“for a bishop”: (**episkopos**), “overseer”.

This is a word denoting authority; used for someone who is functioning
as a leader; used of persons who have a definite office within a group.
This word was quite commonly used in Greek to refer to temple officials,
for example

Acts 20:28, “Take heed therefore unto yourselves, and to all the flock,
over which the Holy Spirit hath made you \*overseers\*, to feed the
church of God, which he hath purchased with his own blood. For I know
this, that after my departing shall grievous wolves enter in among you,
not sparing the flock. Also of your own selves shall men arise, speaking
perverse things, to draw away disciples after them. Therefore watch…”

Therefore, in the local church, the bishop was a man with official
duties including teaching and shepherding; in our own parlance, the
pastor.

### Topic: Shepherds of the Flock of God

READ 1 Tim. 3:1-7

“must be”: “it is necessary”. Therefore, “It is necessary for a bishop
to be…”. All of the characteristics below are necessary qualifications
for the overseer.

“blameless”: (**anegkleitos**), [ see above in verse 6 ]

“as the steward”: (**oikonomos**), “an administrator with authority; the
manager of an estate”

“of God”: the possessive case, “a steward belonging to God”

“not self-willed”: (**authadeis**), “stubborn, arrogant”. See 2 Pet.
2:10.

The pastor cannot allow self will, stubbornness, or antagonism toward
people to move him to the place where he is unfair. He is to express
grace, even to those who deserve condemnation. He must be oriented to
grace.

The pastor must maintain objectivity. A stubborn, implacable man cannot
do so. The pastor will be criticized, sometimes justly, sometimes not.
The criticism does not necessarily constitute judging or maligning. But
criticism cannot be allowed to cause antagonism on his part, so he must
have grace orientation. Personal feelings or prejudice must never
destroy his fairness in dealing with a situation.

“not soon angry”: (**orgilos**), “not quick tempered” Anger from a quick
temper is mental attitude sin. The pastor must have a relaxed mental
attitude which leads to a quick recovery from anger.

Prov. 14:17, “He that is soon angry deals foolishly…”

Prov. 15:18, “A wrathful man stirs up strife; but he that is slow to
anger appeases strife.”

### Topic: Anger

The elder who is to be appointed to a church on Crete must turn matters
over to the Lord and maintain a non-judgmental, objective outlook.

“not given to wine”: (**paroinos**), “not addicted to drunkenness”. This
refers to using alcohol as a form of sublimation. The edified man,
mature in Christ, has such happiness (+H) and peace every day that he
doesn’t need to sublimate or forget it all.

There are several reasons given in the Bible not to drink wine. First,
one is not to drink in order to get drunk, Eph. 5:18. A person’s mind
must be unclouded and always open to the controlling and teaching
ministry of the Holy Spirit.

Then, a person is not to drink if it would be offensive to others, 1
Cor. 10:31; Rom. 14:21. This is the Law of Love superseding the Law of
Liberty; the outworking of impersonal love and burden for the lost and
untaught.

Prov. 31:4,5 “It is not for kings to drink wine; nor for princes strong
drink: lest they drink, and forget the law, and pervert the judgment of
any of the afflicted.”

It is apparent that any person in a position of social or spiritual
responsibility is not to be given to wine or strong drink, including
elders, deacons, and mature women (Titus 2:3)

“not a striker”: (**pleikteis**), “bully, pugnacious man, brawler”

This is not a reference to self defense. A bully is a man who seeks out
fighting and brawling. But an elder can ruin his ministry by starting a
fight.

“not given to filthy lucre”: (**aiscrokerdeis**), “not eager for
dishonorable profit; not greedy for material gain.”

This is a reference to Mastery of the Details of Life by the mature
believer who is no longer part of the “Rat Race” for this world’s goods.
When a Christian is a master of the details of life (rather than a slave
to them), he can enjoy the things in his life when he has them, but when
they are taken away, his happiness (joy) is not disturbed, because his
joy depends on God’s faithfulness, not on personal possessions, social
life, or status.

The pastorate is not a career. It is not a salaried position (although
he might receive a salary). It is not a job for yuppies, those who are
upwardly mobile, status conscious, world-changers. It is not a track to
national prominence or even local prominence. It is not a position from
which a man can satisfy his ambition, or stroke his lust for
approbation, or solidify his power base.

Titus 1:8
---------

But a lover of hospitality, a lover of good men, sober, just, holy,
temperate.

“but”: a conjunction of contrast: there is a change here, from dealing
with negative characteristics to be avoided, to the positive aspects
that are characteristics of the edified believer, and that must be found
in church leadership.

“a lover of hospitality”: (**philozenos**), literally, “having a love
for strangers”

This word carries the connotation of hospitality, of doing something for
someone who does not earn or deserve the good treatment, because there
has been no previous acquaintance. This word reflects a Grace attitude
toward people who have not yet earned your consideration.

This is a word of impersonal love - the type of attitude that is free of
arrogance, envy, hatred, or even disdain for other people, even if there
is sharp disagreement about doctrine or practice. This is the type of
love that permits a Christian to love even his enemies or people that he
doesn’t like.

This is the type of love that is the fruit of the Holy Spirit. It does
not come from emotion, although it may cause emotion. This is the
“professional” love of the mature Christian believer, analogous to the
Love of God, the quality of which does not depend on the behavior or
character of the one being loved, but on the character of the one who
loves.

“a lover of good men”: (**philagothos**), “one who loves good”.

The idea of “good men” probably derives from the fact that sometimes
adjectives are used by themselves to indicate a class of people. We say
“the rich” when we mean “the rich people”, or “the infirm” when we mean
“the infirm people”. Here, the adjective is “good”, which could mean
“good people”, hence, “one who loves good people”.

But the meaning could well be limited to only the adjective itself,
without regard to a class of people. In that case, the meaning would
change quite a bit. “Good” then would refer to that which has intrinsic
good, good in itself, and in this context it would refer to “divine
good”, and the translation would be “one who loves good”.

I’ve read various discussion on this, and I choose the latter meaning,
probably because the idea of love towards mankind (stranger\~) is
already paramount in the previous word.

[ If you are aware of studies that shed more light on this point, I
would appreciate hearing from you about it. wd ]

“sober”: (**sofron**), “prudent, thoughtful, discrete, self-controlled”.

When used of women in Titus 2:5, (**sofron**) is translated “discrete”
or “modest”.

This is a mental attitude of care for one’s reputation, one’s character,
a consideration of appearances. The verb form, (**sofroneo**), means “to
be of a sound mind”, so there is the connotation of mental stability.

READ Rom. 12:1-3 The transformation leading to mental stability.

“just”: (**dikaios**), “righteous; fair; equitable”

The pastor must be fair, even-handed in all his actions. He must exhibit
the righteousness of God in the human life. He knows that the source of
righteousness is the Lord and is imputed without merit. Therefore he is
relaxed, not judgmental.

### Topic: Judgment, Justice, Judging

“holy”: (**hosios**), “kind, gracious, holy”.

This is NOT (**hagios**), “set apart, or sanctified”, which is a result
of our union with Christ.

This word for holiness has to do with an experiential inner result of
the work of the Lord in the life.

The candidate for Christian leadership must have an observable holiness.
He must be known for the fruit of the Spirit, just as the original seven
deacons were chosen for their obvious spiritual qualities and fruits.

These qualities are difficult to fake. Many people can put on a facade
of “holiness” or morality; but Titus is a discerning Christian, and he
has the responsibility to judge men in these matters.

He could tell whether a man loved the Word of God and was occupied with
Christ (viewing everything in life with Jesus Christ in mind). He could
observe a man who was going through some testing (minor or major) and
determine whether he knew how to trust God in situations and maintain
peace and joy in the midst of trials. He knew what to look for, and
could size someone up very quickly.

“temperate”: (**egkrateis**), “self-restrained”; a master of the details
of life.

You either have control over the details of life, or they control you.

Examples: Jer. 35:6; Dan. 1:8

Titus 1:9
---------

Holding fast the faith word, as he has been taught, that he might be
able, by sound doctrine, both to exhort and to convince the gainsayers.

In this verse there are some operational standards for the man appointed
to the office of pastor (elder, bishop), the new recruit that Titus will
ordain. This verse shows how rebellious and unruly Christians are to be
handled.

Note that it is not Titus’s job to come into town with a big stick to
personally chastise the lying, rioting, deceiving, subversive believers.
In fact, he’s not going to do the job at all, because he will not stay
on the island long enough.

The new recruit is to be the teacher. Month after month, year after
year, the man who has emerged as a community spiritual leader will
patiently instruct, encourage, exhort, convince – by using the Word of
God either to convince those with positive volition or to close the
mouths of the implacable. The principle is that Bible teaching is the
instrument of bringing change into people’s lives. The opposition will
either capitulate to doctrine, or they will be forced to leave.

“holding fast”: (**antecomai**), “to cling to something; to hold fast
to; to be devoted to”

That which is “held fast” is sound doctrine. The verb is in the Greek
middle voice, which is reflexive, that is, the subject acts upon itself.
Thus, the believer is holding something fast for himself.

Heb. 4:14 “Seeing then that we have a great high priest, that is passed
into the heavens, Jesus the Son of God, let us hold fast (antecomai) our
profession.”

Heb. 10:23 “Let us hold fast (**antecomai**) the profession of our faith
without wavering.”

“the faithful word”: (**pistos + logos**), “the trustworthy word; the
dependable word”, that which inspires trust, The Word of God.

“as he hath been taught”: (kata tein didascei), “according to the
instruction; teaching; doctrine”.

“that he might be able”: (**eimi + dunatos**), “might be capable”.

Strength after the flesh, that is, human strength, is not enough. The
teacher’s ability is the result of clinging to doctrine.

1 Cor. 1:26 “For ye see your calling, brethren, how that not many wise
men after the flesh, not many mighty, not many noble, are called:”

“by sound doctrine”: (**didaskalia + hugiaino**), “by means of
uncorrupted doctrine” .

(**hugiaino**) “uncorrupted” is repeated in 1:13; 2:1; 2:2; with
(**hugiaino**) in 2:8. It is used in the physical sense for good health;
in the Gospels and in 3 John v.2.

The doctrine the new pastor is to teach is uncorrupted, sharply
contrasted with other comments in this chapter about false teaching,
myths, commandments of men.

“both to exhort”: (**parakaleo**), “to exhort, to push, to stimulate”.

The Holy Spirit is called the Paraclete, and the Greek verb here has
several meanings in the Bible, including “to exhort” and “to comfort”.

Exhortation requires authority; Titus 2:15 “These things speak, and
exhort, and rebuke with all authority. Let no man despise thee.”

Exhortation requires great patience. 2 Tim. 4:2 “Preach the word; be
instant in season, out of season; reprove, rebuke, exhort with all
longsuffering and doctrine.”

Exhortation requires persistence. Heb. 3:12,13 “Take heed, brethren,
lest there be in any of you an evil heart of unbelief, in departing from
the living God. But exhort one another daily, while it is called Today;
lest any of you be hardened through the deceitfulness of sin.”

Exhortation takes place in the local church environment. Heb. 10:23-25

“and to convince”: (**elegko**), “to bring to light; to expose; to
demonstrate; to convince; to reprove; to rebuke. Translated “rebuke” in
1:13 and 2:15; but even rebuking is by means of convincing argument from
the Scripture.

“the gainsayers”: (**antilego**), literally, “those who speak against;
those who contradict”; therefore, “those who are in opposition”.

Note the use in 2:9, servants are not to contradict or speak against
their masters.

READ Luke 2:34; 20:27

READ Romans 10:21 !!

