---
title: "Refreshment"
pdf: "refreshment.pdf"
description: "Refreshment -  Romans 15:32 says, \"So that by God's will I may come to you with joy and together with you be refreshed.\""
tableOfContents: true
template: topic.jade
---

The Ministry of Refreshment

In the papyri, the term ANAPAUO is found as “an agricultural term, e.g.,
of giving land rest by sowing light crops upon it. In inscriptions it is
found on gravestones of Christians, followed by the date of death
(Moulton and Milligan).”

Romans 15:32 says, “So that by God’s will I may come to you with joy and
together with you be refreshed.” And here, Paul implies that true
refreshment comes from one saint to another as they enjoy each other’s
company.

In I Corinthians 16: 17,18, Paul cites by name three spiritually mature
believers whose company, virtue-love and faith recently ‘refreshed’ his
soul. And the ramification is that believers occasionally require
‘refreshment.’ “I was glad when Stephanas, Fortunatus and Achaicus
arrived, because they have supplied what was lacking from you. For they
refreshed my spirit and yours also. Such men deserve recognition.”

Our Lord used the term in Matthew 11:28, where the connotation is to
give rest from effort: “Come to me, all you who are weary and burdened,
and I will give you rest.” And this is a remarkable statement – that
there is refreshment and rest in this Person only; only here may true
ease be discovered.

Paul will again use the term in Philemon 20, which says, “I do wish,
brother, that I may have some benefit from you in the Lord; refresh my
heart in Christ.” And the inference here is that Philemon’s grace
attitude, faith in God, trust in God’s promises, virtue-love, and modus
operandi and modus vivendi (method of operation and manner of life) are
all images and expressions of love for Christ, and the character of
Christ being expressed in Philemon, so that by associating with
Philemon, Paul experiences thes ame refreshment that he would have found
with Christ Himself. This verse details the importance, then, of growing
to spiritual maturity and of associating with such mature believers.

In II Corinthians 7:13, Paul confirms that the spirits of believers are
‘refreshed’ by other believers. “By all this we are encouraged. In
addition to our own encouragement, we were especially delighted to see
how happy Titus was, because his spirit has been refreshed by all of
you.”

Physical refreshment is found through sleep and physical rest, according
to Matthew 26:45, which states, “Then he returned to the disciples and
said to them, ’Are you still sleeping and resting? Look, the hour is
near, and the Son of Man is betrayed into the hands of sinners.”

This need for physical rest is also stated in Mark 6:31 and Mark 14:41.
And Luke 12:19 asserts that food, drink, sleep and recreation are all
forms of physical refreshment, and that they are legitimate as long as
they do not take priority over God and knowledge of His Word. “And I’ll
say to myself, ‘You have plenty of good things laid up for many years.
Take life easy; eat, drink and be merry.’”

I Peter 4:14 uses the term ANAPAUO for the rest/refreshment that belongs
to the saint/believer that suffers for the name of Christ. This is
indeed an extraordinary statement, that spiritual ‘refreshment’ may be
found in suffering and persecution. Only the very, very spiritually
mature believer could produce this type of attitude and happiness – more
and more happiness and rest found in more and more suffering for Christ.
“If you are insulted because of the name of Christ, you are blessed, for
the Spirit of glory and of God rests on you.”

In Revelation 6:11 dwells an unique insinuation: that the ‘righteous
indignation,’ or ‘righteous demand for vengeance from the Perfect
Justice of God’ by the martyred saints of the Tribulation, can only find
rest/refreshment in the Perfect Righteousness and Faithfulness of God.
“Then each of them (the martyred saints) was given a white robe, and
they were told to wait a little longer (rest), until the number of their
fellow servants and brothers who were to be killed as they had been was
completed.”

And Hebrews 4:3,4 and Revelation 14:11 states that those who reject
Christ will never know any type of rest/refreshment in the Lake of Fire
for all eternity. “And the smoke of their torment rises for ever and
ever. There is no rest day or night for those who worship the beast and
his image, or for anyone who receives the mark of his name.”

In contrast, Revelation 14:13 states that those who accept Christ will
‘rest’ forever and ever. "Then I heard a voice from heaven, say, ‘Write:
Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord from now on.’ ‘Yes,’ says the
Spirit, ‘they will rest from their labor, for their deeds will follow
them.’

