---
title: "Major Religions of the World"
pdf: "religions.pdf"
description: "Religions of the World -  Brief descriptions of the major non-Christian religions of the world, including Hinduism, Islam, Buddhism, Jainism, Shinto, Zoroastrianism, Taoism, and Confucianism."
tableOfContents: false
template: topic.jade
---

This article describes several of the major world religions: Hinduism,
Jainism, Buddhism, Shinto, Islam, Taoism, Confucianism, and
Zoroastrianism. American Christians, especially those living in larger
cities, are experiencing considerable contact with people from many
countries and cultures. A knowledge of the basics of world religions can
be valuable when building acquaintances with non-Christians.

These notes are compiled from a number of sources, including
Encyclopedia Brittanica, as well making use of a study of World
Religions by the Moody Bible Institute,

HINDUISM

Hinduism is the oldest living religion. Hinduism has no founder, no
central authority, and no fixed creed. There are about 350 million
followers, almost all living in India. The beginning of Hinduism was
associated with the Indo-Aryan invasion of India approximately 2,000
years before Christ. These early immigrants to India worshipped the
powers of nature and assigned personalities to them. Idolatrous features
of existing local religions were also absorbed by this religion and
survive on popular Hinduism today.

The Hindu Scriptures

Nature worship of the early Aryan period (from about 1500 BC) was
codified and gradually combined with the Brahmanas (up to 600 BC) and
the Upanishads (up to 300 BC) to form the Sruti literature, the
“revealed wisdom”. The most important document is the Rig-Veda, said to
be the oldest religious book, put into writing during the 8th Century
BC. It is composed mostly of prayers addressed to the personified powers
of nature.

The Brahamanas came with the development of priesthood and contain
instructions for priests. The Upanishads are philosophical and abstruse.
They present Brahma, the sole Reality, the immortal, infinite, eternal,
inscrutable, impersonal Absolute.

Other important sacred books are called Smriti, “tradition”. These
include the Laws of Manu (250 BC), the great epic poems Ramayana (story
of the god Ram) and Mahabharat (Great Indian War), both written before
250 AD, and the Puranas (ancient tales), from the same period. Within
the Mahabharat is the Bhagavad-Gita, currently the favorite textbook of
Indian thought.

The Main Beliefs of Modern Hinduism

During the later Vedic period (after 1000 BC), the doctrines of karma
and transmigration became permanent in Hindu thought. These teachings
assert that after death the soul of man will be reborn into another
existence predetermined by the thoughts and actions of the present life.
Karma is the law of sowing and reaping. Transmigration is the belief
that all life is essentially the same, whether vegetable, animal, or
human. The concept is that somehow the soul appears as an individual
entity, caught in a process that will lead it through many lives. When
the final effect of the last action is completed, the soul will be
reabsorbed into the Infinite. There is no continuance of individuality.

Caste appeared at about the same time, probably as a result of
segregation because of skin color or because of occupation. There are
four main caste divisions: Brahmans, or priests; Kshatriyas, or
warriors; Vaisyas, or artisans; and Sudras, or servants. Outside of
these castes are the untouchable outcastes.

The four main castes are divided into some 300 subcastes which are in
turn broken down into thousands of subdivisions. Even the outcastes have
a multitude of divisions among them.

Caste rules originally exercised rigid control over occupation and
social contacts. Today in India change of occupation is more common and
many caste restrictions have been lessened. The Indian constitution
forbids, on paper at least, any discrimination on a caste basis. But the
major points of caste distinction are still intact.

In Hinduism, polytheism and idolatry are extreme. The number of gods
worshipped is said to be more than 300,000,000. Vedic Hinduism of the
early Aryans personified the powers of nature by had no idols not
permanent temples. From the conquered peoples came animism and totemism.
Reform movements, Jainism and Buddhism, for example, arose during the
6th Century BC. These religions added “personal saviors”.

Brahamanism responded to these new religions by personalizing the
impersonal, and Brahma the Creator, Vishnu the Preserver, and Shiva the
Destroyer appeared.

From Vishnu came avatars, or incarnations, depicting various aspects of
being or power. Of nine incarnations, the chief are Rama and Krishna. In
some parts of India, Shiva is predominant. With his consorts he
represents life energy in all aspects. In other sections, Vishnu and his
incarnations are prominent.

The average Hindu is unlimited in his polytheism and not exclusive in
his worship. Each god has helpers, offspring, sacred animals or birds,
symbols, etc. On a lower level are the nature gods - Usha the dawn,
Surya the sun, Agni the fire, etc., with various deities under them!
Lower still are hordes of local gods and demons. These unite to make
Hinduism the most idolatrous religion known.

Philosophical Hinduism

The Six Darshanas, or philosophies, were formulated after 600 BC and are
based largely on the Upanishads. The Bhagavad-Gita, written much later,
amplifies and continues the teachings of the Upanishads. The most
influential systems are:

• The Vedanta, which stresses absolute monism (that there is only one
Reality)

• Sankhya, which is dualistic (spirit and matter are eternal

• Yoga emphasizes physical techniques for union with the Infinite.

Through the 19th Century “incarnation” of Ramakrishna, the teaching of
the ancient wise man Shankara is being disseminated in the West. This
teaching is described as a monistic philosophy, according to which
Brahma (or Brahman) is the ultimate and only Reality. He *is*
consciousness, he *is* existence, he *is* the soul of every human being,
creature, and object. Salvation comes through philosophical speculation
and meditation leading to the realization that Brahma and one’s self are
one and the same. Any concept of ego or individuality is simply a phase
of maya, or “illusion.”

Devotional Hinduism

Three Ways of gaining *moksha*, or deliverance are recognized:

1. The Way of Works (karma-marga) - consistent obedience in carrying out
ceremonies, sacrifices, pilgrimages, etc., to accumulate merit.

2. The Way of Knowledge (gyan-marga) - involves profound philosophical
thinking. Salvation comes with the flash of realization of the oneness
of all things.

3. The Way of Devotion (bhakti-marga) - demands ardent personal devotion
to a particular deity above all others. This is the most common Way and
is emphasized in the Bhagavad-Gita.

JAINISM

Jainism is considered to be an aspect of Hinduism and is the oldest
religion which originated in India and was founded by a person. Jainism
has about 1.5 million followers.

The founder of Jainism was Vardhamana (599 to 527 BC), who became
Mahavia (great hero) of Jain (“the victor”) following his enlightenment.
He was a prince of the Kahatriya caste. He renounced the world at age 30
and undertook a life of extreme asceticism in search moksha, “freedom
from rebirth.” Reaching the desired state in 12 years, he spent the
remainder of his life in winning converts.

Some distinctives of Jainism:

• Pluralism - matter and spirit are eternal. The individual is uncreated
and indestructible.

• Atheism - denial of any creator or supreme being.

• Autosoterism - salvation purely by personal effort. Prayers and
worship do not help.

• Ahimsa - non-injury, or extreme reverence for all living things. This
is considered the highest of all good, and has become the outstanding
characteristic of Jainism.

• Isatpragbhara - the highest heaven, is the place where the soul dwells
in eternal and conscious individuality.

• Jainism retained the basic doctrines of karma and transmigration, but
sought to eliminate caste, with only partial success.

BUDDHISM

Buddhism is the first religion to become international. There are
between 250 and 500 million followers today.

The founder of Buddhism was Siddhartha Gautama (560 to 480 BC), a prince
of the Kshatriya caste of Hinduism. At age 29 he decided to seek the
answer to the problem of sin and suffering. The way of philosophical
speculation being unsuccessful, he took the path of extreme bodily
asceticism. After five futile years he resorted to less rigorous
practice. At 35, while seated under the bodhi tree in meditation, he
experienced enlightenment and became the Buddha, the “enlightened one.”
During the remained of his life, he preached the Middle Path to
Enlightenment, or **nirvana**, the place of freedom from rebirth. He
died at 80, with about 500 disciples.

The Buddhist Middle Path to salvation from rebirth demands true
knowledge of the Four Noble Truths. These are:

1. Existence entails suffering

2. Suffering is caused by inherently insatiable desires.

3. Desire must be suppressed in order to end suffering and existence.

4. The way to do this is to follow the Eightfold Path, which forms the
heart of Buddha’s teaching: right views (beliefs); aims (intentions);
speech; action; livelihood (living); self-discipline; self-mastery; and
concentration (contemplation).

Essential Features of Buddhism

Gautama’s concern was conduct, not worship. He apparently acknowledged
the possibility of gods and demons but said nothing about them.

The delusion of self and questions as to whether the soul exists has
been a source of quarrel among Buddhists for centuries. The ego is
composed of five constantly changing *skandhas*, or states of being.
While there is no permanent ego-entity, what a person does has its
effect upon his future. Karma and transmigration are accepted doctrines.

Nirvana, the “place of passionless peace,” where all desire has ceased,
all karma has been completed, and there is no more rebirth.

Buddhist Scriptures

The Tripitaka, or “Three Baskets,” were transmitted orally from Buddha’s
time and written in the Pali language probably during the 2nd Century
BC. The Three Baskets are the Vinaya, containing monastic rules; The
Sutra, teachings of the Buddha; and Adhidharma, metaphysical
commentaries on the teachings. Added to these is a large body of
literature, some in Sanskrit, containing many legends and much
philosophizing.

Two Main Schools of Buddhism

**Hinayana**, the Lesser Vehicle (Southern Buddhism), is generally
closer to the original teachings. Salvation of the individual is
emphasized, and only the original Pali scriptures are accepted. This
school is found in Sri Lanka, Burma, Thailand, Cambodia, Laos, and Viet
Nam. Distinctive features are:

• The saffron-robed monk is conspicuous. He follows the Path as set in
the early scriptures.

• A reverent attitude toward relics and images of the Buddha is
maintained.

• Monasteries are frequented by monks and by laymen who periodically
enter to live as did the Buddha.

• Another Buddha named Maitreya will come to enlighten the age as
Gautama did his.

• Thousands of inferior deities have been added, depending on the
religious background of each country.

**Mahayana**, the Greater Vehicle (Northern Buddhism), has as its goal
the salvation of all things and is noted for its adaptability and
radical departure from the original tenets. Found in Japan, Korea,
China, Nepal, Tibet, and Indonesia. The following features are
distinctive:

• Buddha is worshipped as the supreme Reality, the divine Being, or as
an avatar, an incarnate savior.

• There is an innumerable company of *bodhisattvas* - men who have
attained nirvana but postpone entrance in order to help mankind.

• Prayer is addressed to images of these bodhisattvas.

• Maitreya will be the next Buddha.

• Heavens and halls in the afterlife are vividly portrayed.

Sects of the Mahayana School

1. The Pure Land sect

• Found in China and Japan

• The central figure is Amida, a Buddha who presides over the Pure Land,
or Western Paradise

• The Pure Land of Bliss is the Western regions is the ultimate goal

• Faith in Amida assures entrance to the Pure Land. Good works are
unnecessary.

• Rules for living are few. Clergy live normal lives, not separated from
the world.

2. Zen, the intuitive sect

• *Dhyana*, the Sanskrit word for meditation, became *Ch’en* in China
and *Zen* in Japan.

• Salvation is to be found within. The true Buddha nature is within
one’s own heart.

• Reason cannot give truth or reality. The *koan*, an irrational
question to baffle the mind, is used to facilitate enlightenment.

• *Zazen* , the method of meditation, is similar to Yoga in Hinduism

• The goal is *satori*, a flash of intuition, such as achieved by
Gautama.

• Zen is rigidly individualistic, needing no temples, monasteries, or
images. Simple living and self-discipline are advocated.

3. Nichiren, the socio-political sect

• Nichiren was a militant and intolerant reformer of the 13th Century
(AD) in Japan.

• Salvation is to be found only in the Lotus Sutra, a Sanskrit scripture
called also the Gospel of the Pure Law.

• Highly emotional and extremely nationalistic in practice

• Has numerous subsects which are strong in Japan

4. Lamaism, or Tibetan Buddhism

• A mixture of Tantrism, Shamanism, and sorcery

• Uses prayers wheels, mills, and flags

• Extensive demon worship, with many buddhas and bodhisattvas

• Celibate priests, called lamas, live in massive monasteries. Head
lamas are reincarnations of the souls of predecessors.

• The Dalai Lama is the supreme head of church and state

ISLAM

Islam claims more than 400 million followers, numerically second to
Christianity. Its founder was Mohammed (AD 570 to 632) who was born in
Mecca, Arabia. Troubled by prevalent idolatry, he spent much time in
lonely meditation. After repeated visions, he believed himself called to
preach the religion of the one absolute God (Allah), the Creator, Ruler,
and Judge of the universe.

Mohammed migrated to Medina when he experienced heavy opposition in
Mecca. This migration, known as the Hegira, marks the beginning of the
Islamic Era. Mohammed’s Rule of God expanded from Medina, and by 630 he
was the rule of all Arabia. during the following century Islam became
supreme is the Near East, North Africa, and Spain.

Essential Beliefs of Islam

A Muslim is literally “one who submits to the will of God.” Islam
demands Iman, or belief in the articles of faith, and Din, the practice
of religious duties. The Iman consists of the following doctrines:

• There is no god but Allah. (Allah is Arabic for God). Greatest
possible stress is laid on God’s oneness. He is without an equal,
absolutely sovereign, and omnipotent.

• Angels are Allah’s messengers. They are sinless beings who were
created out of light and have life, speech, and reason. Of four
archangels, Gabriel is the medium of inspiration, the revealer of
Allah’s truth. The devil, called Shaitan or Iblis, is an angel who fell
through pride. Other beings are the *jinn*, or genii. They are created
out of fire, and may be good or evil. Demonic genii serve the devil.

• The books “sent down” from Allah numbered 104. Only four remain:
Tauret (Pentateuch) given to Moses; Zabur (Psalms) given to David; Injil
(Evangel) given to Jesus; and Koran (given to Mohammed). The first three
have been corrupted and have been replaced by the Koran, which contains
all the necessary

The Koran, uncreated and eternal, was brought to the lowest heaven on
the Night of Power and Excellence and given piecemeal to Mohammed as
occasion demanded.

• Major and minor prophets are innumerable. Twenty-eight are named in
the Koran, including Adam, Noah, Abraham, Moses, Jesus, and Mohammed.

• Resurrection and the day of judgment will be literal for all men.
There are seven heavens and seven hells.

Predestination of good and evil is the keystone of Islam. Everything is
by the decree of Allah. His will is certain, arbitrary, irresistible,
and inevitable.

• The Five Pillars of Islam are obligatory duties.

1. Recitation of the Kalima, the creed, “There is no god but Allah, and
Mohammed is his prophet.”

2. Prayer: recitation of the five daily prayers (passages from the
Koran) must be preceded by ceremonial washings, with face turned toward
Mecca, with a specified posture, and Arabic language.

3. Fasting: especially during the month of Ramadan, ninth month of the
lunar calendar. Abstinence is required from eating, drinking, bathing,
smoking, smelling perfumes, etc., between sunrise and sunset. Feasting
is permitted during the night.

4. Almsgiving: a compulsory percentage of property owned must be given
to the poor, homeless, debtors, slaves, tax collectors, etc.

5. Pilgrimage to Mecca: required once in a lifetime for those who are
able.

Other Essentials of Islam

Traditions - Sunna, “custom or usage of the Prophet” - supplement or
interpret the Koran. This is the oral law, the second foundation of
Islam. Collections of traditions are the Hadith containing records of
conduct and sayings of Mohammed or the Companions, the first generation
of Muslims.

Circumcision - the rite of initiation among all Muslims. It is not
mentioned in the Koran.

Kaaba - a cube-shaped building in the center of the mosque in Mecca. The
black stone, a meteorite built into one corner, is said to have fallen
from heaven in Adam’s day.

Jihad, or holy war - religious war against infidels is plainly taught in
the Koran.

Polygamy - Islam limits number of wives to four at one time. Divorce is
easy to obtain (for men), and women have few rights in orthodox Islam.

Sins of ignorance and of childhood are not real sins. Great sins (such
as murder, adultery, disobedience to Allah or to parents, drunkenness,
etc.) must be repented of before forgiveness can be expected. Little
sins (lying, anger, lust) are offset by prayer and good deeds. The
unpardonable sin is associating any other divinity with Allah.

Major Islamic Sects

Mohammed is said to have predicted that his followers would be divided
into 73 sects. A Muslim authority has been quoted as estimating the
number at about 150.

The Sunnis are followers of the Sunna and are the orthodox. They
comprise 50% of all Muslims.

The Shi’as, also called Imamiyyas, are the most important of the
heretical groups. They reject the first three caliphs (successors to
Mohammed) and follow Ali (cousin and son-in-law of Mohammed) and his
successors, the twelve Imams. The last of the Imams disappeared in 940
and is to reappear as the Mahdi to restore Islam. Shiites are the
majority in Iran where the Shi’a faith is the state religion.

The Sufis are the mystics of Islam and seek for truth by inward search
leading to enlightenment. They have been accused of pantheism.

The Ahmadiyyas were founded by Mirza Ghulam Ahmad (1839 to 1908) who
claimed to be the Imam-Mahdi. This is the strong current missionary arm
of Islam, although considered heretical.

SHINTO

Shinto and Japan are inseparable. Most of Japan’s 120 million people
were born into Shinto. Shinto is based on the concept of the divine
origin of land and people, and it has coexisted and intermingled with
Confucianism and Buddhism for 1400 years.

Early History of Shinto

The period of Pure Shinto was from about 660 BC to AD 552. Nature
worship was associated with worship of the land. Unpainted, unadorned,
wooden shrines were centers of worship, having no images, sacred book,
doctrines, or code of laws. The indefinable *kami*, similar to a feature
of Animism, was everywhere. Divinities were multiple and everywhere, in
addition to ancestors. Worship was coupled with reverence for local and
national rulers.

The later history of Shinto is dated from the entrance of Buddhism in AD
552. Buddhism entered by way of China and Korea and existed as a
separate religion. Images, incense, sermons, and elaborate ceremonies
were introduced. Mixed Shinto, called Dyobo, the twofold way of the
gods, was developed. During the 17th Century, pure Shinto was revived.
The central truth was that the Emperor is the direct descendant of the
gods. No other nation was entitled to equality with Japan.

The Emperor Meiji in 1882 disestablished Buddhism and made Shinto the
state religion. State Shinto, with the divinity of the emperor as
symbol, became a national institution in which all were expected to
participate regardless of religion. In 1945 State Shinto was
disestablished, and the emperor declared himself to be mortal. Shinto
has regained its strength since World War II, with an estimated 90,000
shrines.

The Shinto scriptures, Ko-ji-ki, “Records of Ancient Matters” (AD 712),
and Ni-hon-gi, “Chronicles of Japan” (AD 720), trace the mythical
history of Japan and of the imperial line.

According to the Ko-ji-ki there are 800 myriads (one myriad = 10,000) of
gods. “Kami” signified in early Shinto anything that was awesome or
powerful, with meaning so vast and all-inclusive as to be beyond
definition. The sun-goddess, Amaterasu Omikami, holds divine preeminence
and the emperor is said to be directly descended from her. Nature gods
are innumerable in Shinto, with many beautiful shrines throughout the
land, each being approached through the distinctive *torii* gateway.

Festivals and ceremonies are connected with the seasons and harvest.
Worship is almost exclusively individual and consists of prayer, largely
for material blessings. Personal cleanliness is of primary importance.
Ancestor worship is common to each home.

No Shinto book contains any code of morals. Ethics and morals are based
on the idea of the divinity of the celestial race. There is no concept
of sin. Since the people are naturally good (!), the question of right
and wrong does not arise. Culture is concerned with shame and saving
face rather than with the problem of evil. Loyalty, as expressed in
exact correctness of action and thought, is a basic concept.

TAOISM

Taoism, Confucianism, and Buddhism were recognized as official religions
in pre-communist China. Originally a philosophy, Taoism became a
religion shortly before the Christian era began. It is fast disappearing
in China, its only sphere of influence.

Taoism is the oldest personally founded religion in China. The founder,
Lao-Tzu (604 to 517 BC) emphasized a return to the primitive simplicity
of nature, a quiet and personal search for the *Tao*, the eternal,
impersonal, mystical, supreme principal that lies behind the universe.

The symbols *yin* and *yang* are notable from Taoism. These are the “two
interacting energy modes”, the yang being masculine, active, warm, dry,
and positive. The yin in feminine, dark, cold, inactive, and negative.
Everything that exists is constituted by the interplay of these two
modes of energy.

The religion of Taoism bears little resemblance to the philosophy of
Lao-Tzu, being characterized by superstition, extreme animism,
witchcraft, astrology, demonism, and ancestor worship.

CONFUCIANISM

Confucianism is really a philosophy of life, not a religion. The main
concern of Confucius (551 to 446 BC) was with human relationships, the
science of government, and ethics within the social order. He
acknowledged the being of God (called Heaven) and the place of religion,
but he added little to that field.

The Superior Man was the ideal to be followed. Confucian temples
idolized the found as this Ideal Man. Since there was no separate
priesthood, government officials performed priestly functions. These
included nature worship, veneration of Confucius, the emperors, and the
ancestors, in elaborate ceremonies. There were five relationships
indispensable to life. These existed between ruler and subject, father
and son, husband and wife, elder brother to younger, and friend with
friend.

The Confucian scriptures, called The Classics and The Four Books, were
compiled by Confucius and are collections of his sayings. They contain
no teaching regarding a future life. These books, however, are thought
to be the most important influence in the development of the Chinese
ideal of character.

ZOROASTRIANISM

Zoroastrianism is the world religion that has the closest association
with Bible history. The kings Cyrus, Ahasuerus, and Darius of Persia
were Zoroastrians.

The founder was Zoroaster, or Zarathustra (about 660 to 583 BC), who was
born in Persia. At the age of 30 a vision of Ahura Mazda, the Supreme
Being, sent him forth to preach. Years of discouragement and persecution
ended when the Persian king was converted in 618 BC. The last twenty
years of Zoroaster’s life were spent in holy wars by which he sought to
promulgate his religion. Later descendants have raised the founder to a
supernatural position deserving of worship, with a miraculous birth and
miracle-working powers.

The Avesta is the inclusive name of the Zoroastrian scriptures. The
religion is basically a cosmic dualism with good and evil in eternal
opposition. The Supreme Being, Ahura Mazda, or Ormazd, is the god of
light. He is in constant battle with Angra Mainyu, the bad spirit. Good
and evil spirits are associated with them, and Ormazd will ultimately
triumph.

The use of sacred fire in formal worship, symbolic of light and purity,
has brought the designation “fire worshippers,” which Zoroastrians
repudiate with vehemence.

The bodies of the dead are exposed within towers to be consumed by
vultures. The aim is to dispose of the body without contaminating soil
or water with decaying flesh.

High ethical morals are maintained. Salvation is by works. A future
savior is expected. There will be a bodily resurrection of all dead.
After the final judgment, the wicked will be purified by fire. Thus
cleansed, they will go with the righteous to dwell forever in the new
heaven and the new earth. All evil angels will be annihilated.

