---
title: "The City of Rome in Bible Times"
indexTitle: "Rome, the City in Bible Times"
pdf: "romeinbibletimes.pdf"
description: "Rome in BibleTimes -  -what was the city of Rome like in the times of the early church?"
tableofcontents: true
template: topic.jade
---

Rome was founded on the Tiber river in 753 B.C. It soon spread to cover
seven hills, which were : Capitoline, Palatine, Aventine, Caelian,
Esquiline, Viminal, and Quirinal. The Roman Forum lay between the
Palatine and Capitoline hills and was the center of Roman cultural,
civic, and commercial activities.

The finest of Rome’s temples, palaces, circuses, baths, monuments,
amphitheaters, and imperial buildings were near the Forum. All Roman
life centered in this area, and all roads in the empire radiated from
the golden milestone located in the Forum. Paul, Peter, and Luke must
have been in the forum often; and here Paul may have been tried for his
life. The dust and dirt of centuries cover this area now; and
earthquake, fire, and time have taken their toll.

There were excavations in Rome as early as the 16th century, with
extensive archaeological work being done since then. In the late 19th
century, the Pontifical Commission of Sacred Archaeology took up the
work and have continued to oversee it until the present.

Ancient Rome was a sumptuous and magnificent city. There are many
descriptions in history of its magnificence. The Forum measures 240 by
690 feet and was the scene of the trial and death of Julius Caesar and
the oration of Mark Antony. The Colosseum, covering six acres, seated
60,000 spectators at gladiatorial contests in which Christians were
thrown to wild beasts. The palaces of the emperor and the temple of
Jupiter were on the Palatine Hill. More than 250,000 people could watch
chariot races at the Circus Maximus.

Near the Forum can be seen the Arch of Titus (Vespasian) which has a
sculptured relief of Titus and his legions carrying the sacred vessels
from the Temple in Jerusalem after the siege of 70 A.D. Of course, this
had not been built when the apostle Paul was alive. Also, the Arch of
Constantine is in the area and tells of Constantine’s proclamation of
316 A.D. in which he announced that Christianity was to be the official
religion of the empire. During the excavation, in 1941, of Ostia, Rome’s
seaport at the mouth of the Tiber, an inscription was found indicating
that in 14 A.D., during the reign of Tiberius, Rome had a population of
over 4 million.

Of all the discoveries in and around Rome, the most interesting to
Christians and Jews are the Catacombs which lay along the roadways
outside the city, but which are never farther than three miles from the
old city walls. The origin of these Catacombs is one of the strangest
phases of history. They started out as sand pits discovered and
exploited by people who needed building materials. The material was
actually a combination of volcanic ash and sand, melted enough to cause
the particles to adhere to each other. This tufa stone comprised the
earth’s surface for miles around Rome and was excellent when used in
masonry. Many subterranean channels were dug in “mining” this sand.

During the first century, there came tremendous conflict between the
young Church and the Roman Empire. The marked characteristic of the
empire was tolerance; and the most notable characteristics of the
Christian church were its love and benevolence. So, you would think the
two would have gotten along well together. They did not, however,
because the Christians swore allegiance to Jesus Christ as Lord of the
lives, and everything else was expected to be subservient to Him. Of
course the Romans did not like this.

Also, the church had high standards for moral conduct, and they called
for conformity to these standards. They said, “If you expect to be
saved, you must conform to Christ’s way of life.” This was resented. The
church condemned the world and sought to save it, but from the world
there came contempt and aversion, followed by persecution.

The Christians were also thought to be very unsocial people. They were
considered strange, and were hated as enemies of society. They were
simple and moral in their dress, they would not go to games and feasts,
they condemned those who sold fodder for the animals which were to be
sacrificed to pagan gods. The public began to dread them because they
thought the gods would be angry and cause their crops to fail if too
many people refused to make offerings. If crops failed, if the Tiber
river overflowed, if plagues came, the cry was “Send the Christians to
the lions!” Yet the Christians were kind to all who were in trouble,
stayed and nursed the sick during the plague when others fled, and lived
highly moral lives.

In order to test people’s loyalty, the Roman government required that
every one appear at certain public places and there burn a pinch of
incense to the emperor. The Christians considered this emperor worship,
and they wished to worship only Christ. So government authorities began
to seek them out and punish them with death. As a protective measure the
Christians began to meet and work in secret. They sought refuge in the
underground sand pits. With their tools they hollowed out rooms,
chapels, and burying places. The Catacombs became their place of safe
retreat. They came to live there, to worship there, and were buried
there, by the tens of thousands.

The Catacombs were discovered, and excavations begun, in the 16th
century. Since 1950 they have been excavated very extensively. Enough
information has been gathered to fill many books. About six million
people are buried in about sixty Catacombs, fifty-four of which are
Christian, and six of which are Jewish. Each of these has an obscure
entrance from which a stairway leads down to tunnels and galleries which
branch off in all directions creating a network of tunnels and streets
on as many as four levels connected by stairways. On each level is an
immense maze of tunnels - so that in all there are about 587 miles of
tunnels.

Along the walls of these passageways, or at dead ends, the Christians
are buried in wall tombs. Each tomb is closed with tiles or with a
marble slab on which the name, and perhaps a portrait, of the deceased
appears. Often the walls and ceilings were decorated with paintings of
Bible characters, or scenes such as Moses striking the rock, David,
Daniel, Noah, or Jonah — in each case they represented a miraculous
deliverance by God. In 1853, the archaeologist DeRossi found a marble
slab with the engraving, “Marcus Antonius Rastutus made this sepulchre
for himself and his own, who are confident in the Lord.”

