---
title: Sacrifices
template: lesson.jade
---


**Sacrifices in the Old Testament  
**from Commentary on the Old Testament  
C. F. Keil and F. Delitzsch

[Grace Notes has a 20-lesson course based on Keil and Delitzsch
commentary on the book of Leviticus. Write to: <wdoud@gracenotes.info>
for information.]

When the glory of the Lord had entered the tabernacle in a cloud, God
revealed Himself to Moses from this place of His gracious presence,
according to His promise in Ex. 25:22, to make known His sacred will
through him to the people (Leviticus 1:1).

The first of these revelations related to the sacrifices, in which the
Israelites were to draw near to Him, that they might become partakers of
His grace.

The patriarchs, when sojourning in Canaan, had already worshipped the
God who revealed Himself to them, with both burnt-offerings and
slain-offerings.

Whether their descendants, the children of Israel, had offered
sacrifices to the God of their fathers during their stay in the foreign
land of Egypt, we cannot tell, as there is no allusion whatever to the
subject in the short account of these 430 years.

So much, however, is certain, that they had not forgotten to regard the
sacrifices as a leading part of the worship of God, and were ready to
follow Moses into the desert, to serve the God of their fathers there by
a solemn act of sacrificial worship (Ex. 5:1–3, compared with Leviticus
4:31; 8:4, etc.); and also, that after the exodus from Egypt, not only
did Jethro offer burnt-offerings and slain-offerings to God in the camp
of the Israelites, and prepare a sacrificial meal in which the elders of
Israel took part along with Moses and Aaron (Ex. 18:12), but young men
offered burnt-offerings and slain-offerings by the command of Moses at
the conclusion of the covenant (Ex. 24:5).

Consequently the sacrificial laws of these chapters presuppose the
presentation of burnt-offerings, meat-offerings, and slain-offerings as
a custom well known to the people, and a necessity demanded by their
religious feelings (Leviticus 1:2, 3, 10, 14; 2:1, 4, 5, 14; 3:1, 6,
11).

They were not introduced among the Israelites for the first time by
Moses, as Knobel affirms, who also maintains that the feast of the
Passover was the first animal sacrifice, and in fact a very imperfect
one.

Even animal sacrifices date from the earliest period of our race.

Not only did Noah offer burnt-offerings of all clean animals and birds
(Gen. 8:20), but Abel brought of the firstlings of his flock an offering
to the Lord (Gen. 4:4).2 The object of the sacrificial laws in this book
was neither to enforce sacrificial worship upon the Israelites, nor to
apply “a theory concerning the Hebrew sacrifices” (Knobel), but simply
to organize and expand the sacrificial worship of the Israelites into an
institution in harmony with the covenant between the Lord and His
people, and adapted to promote the end for which it was established.

But although sacrifice in general reaches up to the earliest times of
man’s history, and is met with in every nation, it was not enjoined upon
the human race by any positive command of God, but sprang out of a
religious necessity for fellowship with God, the author, protector, and
preserver of life, which was as innate in man as the consciousness of
God itself, though it assumed very different forms in different tribes
and nations, in consequence of their estrangement from God, and their
growing loss of all true knowledge of Him, inasmuch as their ideas of
the Divine Being so completely regulated the nature, object, and
signification of the sacrifices they offered, that they were quite as
subservient to the worship of idols as to that of the one true God.

To discover the fundamental idea, which was common to all the
sacrifices, we must bear in mind, on the one hand, that the first
sacrifices were presented after the fall, and on the other hand, that we
never meet with any allusion to expiation in the pre-Mosaic sacrifices
of the Old Testament.

Before the fall, man lived in blessed unity with God.

This unity was destroyed by sin, and the fellowship between God and man
was disturbed, though not entirely abolished.

In the punishment which God inflicted upon the sinners, He did not
withdraw His mercy from men; and before driving them out of paradise, He
gave them clothes to cover the nakedness of their shame, by which they
had first of all become conscious of their sin.

Even after their expulsion He still manifested Himself to them, so that
they were able once more to draw near to Him and enter into fellowship
with Him.

This fellowship they sought through the medium of sacrifices, in which
they gave a visible expression not only to their gratitude towards God
for His blessing and His grace, but also to their supplication for the
further continuance of His divine favour.

It was in this sense that both Cain and Abel offered sacrifice, though
not with the same motives, or in the same state of heart towards God.

In this sense Noah also offered sacrifice after his deliverance from the
flood; the only apparent difference being this, that the sons of Adam
offered their sacrifices to God from the fruit of their labour, in the
tilling of the ground and the keeping of sheep, whereas Noah presented
his burnt-offerings from the clean cattle and birds that had been shut
up with him in the ark, i.e., from those animals which at any rate from
that time forward were assigned to man as food (Gen. 9:3).

Noah was probably led to make this selection by the command of God to
take with him into the ark not one or more pairs, but seven of every
kind of clean beasts, as he may have discerned in this an indication of
the divine will, that the seventh animal of every description of clean
beast and bird should be offered in sacrifice to the Lord, for His
gracious protection from destruction by the flood.

Moses also received a still further intimation as to the meaning of the
animal sacrifices, in the prohibition which God appended to the
permission to make use of animals as well as green herbs for food; viz.,
“flesh with the life thereof, which is the blood thereof, shall ye not
eat” (Gen. 9:4, 5), that is to say, flesh which still contained the
blood as the animal’s soul.

In this there was already an intimation, that in the bleeding sacrifice
the soul of the animals was given up to God with the blood; and
therefore, that by virtue of its blood, as the vehicle of the soul,
animal sacrifice was the most fitting means of representing the
surrender of the human soul to God.

This truth may possibly have been only dimly surmised by Noah and his
sons; but it must have been clearly revealed to the patriarch Abraham,
when God demanded the sacrifice of his only son, with whom his whole
heart was bound up, as a proof of his obedience of faith, and then,
after he had attested his faith in his readiness to offer this
sacrifice, supplied him with a ram to offer as a burnt-offering instead
of his son (Gen. 22).

In this the truth was practically revealed to him, that the true God did
not require human sacrifice from His worshippers, but the surrender of
the heart and the denial of the natural life, even though it should
amount to a submission to death itself, and also that this act of
surrender was to be perfected in the animal sacrifice; and that it was
only when presented with these motives that sacrifice could be
well-pleasing to God.

Even before this, however, God had given His sanction to the choice of
clean or edible beasts and birds for sacrifice, in the command to Abram
to offer such animals, as the sacrificial substratum for the covenant to
be concluded with him (Gen. 15).

Now, though nothing has been handed down concerning the sacrifices of
the patriarchs, with the exception of Gen. 46:1ff., there can be no
doubt that they offered burnt-offerings upon the altars which they built
to the Lord, who appeared to them in different places in Canaan (Gen.
12:7; 13:4, 18; 26:25; 33:20; 35:1–7), and embodied in these their
solemn invocation of the name of God in prayer; since the close
connection between sacrifice and prayer is clearly proved by such
passages as Hos. 14:3, Heb. 13:15, and is universally admitted.3 To the
burnt-offering there was added, in the course of time, the
slain-offering, which is mentioned for the first time in Gen. 31:54,
where Jacob seals the covenant, which has been concluded with Laban and
sworn to by God, with a covenant meal.

Whilst the burnt-offering, which was given wholly up to God and entirely
consumed upon the altar, and which ascended to heaven in the smoke, set
forth the self-surrender of man to God, the slain-offering, which
culminated in the sacrificial meal, served as a seal of the covenant
fellowship, and represented the living fellowship of man with God.

Thus, when Jacob-Israel went down with his house to Egypt, he sacrificed
at Beersheba, on the border of the promised land, to the God of his
father Isaac, not burnt-offerings, but slain-offerings (Gen. 46:1),
through which he presented his prayer to the Lord for preservation in
covenant fellowship even in a foreign land, and in consequence of which
he received the promise from God in a nocturnal vision, that He, the God
of his father, would go with him to Egypt and bring him up again to
Canaan, and so maintain the covenant which He had made with his fathers,
and assuredly fulfil it in due time.

The expiatory offerings, properly so called, viz., the sin and
trespass-offerings, were altogether unknown before the economy of the
Sinaitic law; and even if an expiatory element was included in the
burnt-offerings, so far as they embodied self-surrender to God, and thus
involved the need of union and reconciliation with Him, so little
prominence is given to this in the pre-Mosaic sacrifices, that, as we
have already stated, no reference is made to expiation in connection
with them.4 The reason for this striking fact is to be found in the
circumstance, that godly men of the primeval age offered their
sacrifices to a God who had drawn near to them in revelations of love.

It is true that in former times God had made known His holy justice in
the destruction of the wicked and the deliverance of the righteous (Gen.
6:13ff., 18:16ff.), and had commanded Abraham to walk blamelessly before
Him (Gen. 17:1); but He had only manifested Himself to the patriarchs in
His condescending love and mercy, whereas He had made known His holiness
in His very first revelation to Moses in the words, “Draw not nigh
hither; put off thy shoes,” etc. (Ex. 3:5), and unfolded it more and
more in all subsequent revelations, especially at Sinai.

After Jehovah had there declared to the people of Israel, whom He had
redeemed out of Egypt, that they were to be a holy nation to Him (Ex.
19:6), He appeared upon the mountain in the terrible glory of His holy
nature, to conclude His covenant of grace with them by the blood of
burnt-offerings and slain-offerings, so that the people trembled and
were afraid of death if the Lord should speak to them any more (Ex.
20:18ff.).

These facts preceded the laws of sacrifice, and not only prepared the
way for them, but furnished the key to their true interpretation, by
showing that it was only by sacrifice that the sinful nation could enter
into fellowship with the holy God.

The laws of sacrifice in Leviticus 1–7 are divisible into two groups.

The first (Leviticus 1–5) contains the general instructions, which were
applicable both to the community as a whole and also the individual
Israelites.

Chapter 1–3 contain an account of the animals and vegetables which could
be used for the three kinds of offerings that were already common among
them, viz., the burnt-offerings, meat-offerings, and slain-offerings;
and precise rules are laid down for the mode in which they were to be
offered.

In Leviticus 4 and 5 the occasions are described on which sin-offerings
and trespass-offerings were to be presented; and directions are given as
to the sacrifices to be offered, and the mode of presentation on each
separate occasion.

The second group (Leviticus 6 and 7) contains special rules for the
priests, with reference to their duties in connection with the different
sacrifices, and the portions they were to receive; together with several
supplementary laws, for example, with regard to the meat-offering of the
priests, and the various kinds of slain or peace-offering.

All these laws relate exclusively to the sacrifices to be offered
spontaneously, either by individuals or by the whole community, the
consciousness and confession of sin or debt being presupposed, even in
the case of the sin and trespass-offerings, and their presentation being
made to depend upon the free-will of those who had sinned.

This is a sufficient explanation of the fact, that they contain no rules
respecting either the time for presenting them, or the order in which
they were to follow one another, when two or more were offered together.

At the same time, the different rules laid down with regard to the
ritual to be observed, applied not only to the private sacrifices, but
also to those of the congregation, which were prescribed by special laws
for every day, and for the annual festivals, as well as to the
sacrifices of purification and consecration, for which no separate
ritual is enjoined.

