---
title: "Sadducees"
pdf: "sadducees.pdf"
description: "brief article describing this sect."
tableofcontents: true
template: topic.jade
---

The Hebrew word by which the Sadducees were called is **tsaddiqim**,
“the righteous ones”. If we only look at the points of differences
between them and the Pharisees, we get a distorted picture of the
Sadducees; but each party had its strong characteristics, that of the
Pharisees being a rigid realism, while the Sadducees were aristocratic.
According to Josephus, “they gain only the well-to-do; they have not the
people on their side.” The high priestly families, for example, were
almost all Sadducees.

Beliefs of The Sadducees

The Sadducees accepted only the written law and prophets as binding.
They rejected the entire traditional interpretations and the further
developments of the Scribes. “The Sadducees say only what is written is
to be thought of as legal…what has come down from tradition of the
fathers need not be observed.” (Josephus, Antiquities, XIII, 10,6).

In legal matters the Sadducees were very rigid in judging offenders,
while the Pharisees were much milder. “They saw in the tradition of the
elders an excess of legal strictness which they refused to have imposed
upon them, while the advanced religious views were, on the one hand,
superfluous to their worldly-mindedness, and on the other, inadmissible
by their higher culture and enlightenment” (Scheurer, Jewish People,
Div. II, Vol. I, p. 41). A more thorough discussion of legal matters
among the Sadducees can be found in Unger’s Bible Dictionary, pp.
952,953.

In ritual, the only important differences of Sadducees from Pharisees
was in respect to laws of cleanness. They derided the Pharisees for the
oddities and inconsistences which they had brought into their laws of
purity. They did not reject the idea of Levitical uncleanness, however,
and they demanded a higher degree of cleanness for the priest who made
the red heifer offering than did the Pharisees.

Doctrines of the Sadducees

The Sadducees did not believe in a resurrection of the body or in
retribution or reward in a future life. They did not feel bound by any
doctrine which did not proceed from Moses, and there was no assertion by
Moses in the Pentateuch of any resurrection from the dead. The Sadducees
would have given much more weight to Moses’ writings than to any of the
prophets or historians, even though they regarded those writings
canonical.

The Sadducees denied that there were angels or spirits, independent
spiritual beings besides God. Even the soul, they said, was only refined
matter and would perish with the body.

It is not surprising that the Sadducees laid great stress on human free
will. With a strong insistence on personal liberty there came a decrease
of the religious motive. They insisted that man was at his own disposal,
and they rejected the idea that a divine cooperation takes place in
human actions. The Pharisees accentuated the divine to the verge of
fatalism, and insisted on absolute preordination of every event in its
smallest detail. The Sadducees opposed notions like these.

