---
title: "Sanhedrin"
pdf: "sanhedrin.pdf"
description: "a brief description and history of this ruling Jewish organization."
tableOfContents: false
template: topic.jade
---

The rise of this great council of the Hebrews took place in the time of
Greek supremacy, though there has been some attempt to trace its origins
to the council of seventy elders named by Moses. The first mention of
the Sanhedrin is in the time of Antiochus the Great (223-187 B.C.) It
was evidently an aristocratic body, with the high priest acting as
president. When the Roman order was introduced by Pompey, the high
priest still retained the position of governor of the nation, making it
likely that the Sanhedrin was carrying on.

Herod the Great began his reign by ordering the whole of the Sanhedrin
put to death, appointing his own council of elders in their place. Under
the Roman pro-curators, the internal government of the country was in
the hands of the Sanhedrin to a much greater extent. And in the time of
Christ and the apostles, the Sanhedrin is frequently mentioned as being
the supreme Jewish court of justice. The Sanhedrin was abolished after
the destruction of Jerusalem in 70 A.D.

The Organization of the Sanhedrin

The Sanhedrin was composed of 71 priests who served for life and who
were selected from the following:

• The acting high priest presided over the council; all former high
priests were members.

• Male members of the high priestly families

• Scribes, legal assessors, bureaucrats

• Pharisees and Sadducees

• Elders - tribal and family heads

Criminal judges were members of the Sanhedrin, and twenty-three of them
sat in judgment, with two clerks to record votes for acquittal and
conviction. In capital cases, argument for acquittal was heard first,
then those in favor of conviction. Anyone who had spoken in favor of the
accused could not then speak against him; but one who had spoken against
the accused could change his testimony in his favor. Sentence for
acquittal could be pronounced immediately; but sentence for conviction
was reserved for the next day.

In voting, each member stood, beginning with the youngest. A simple
majority was sufficient for acquittal; but a majority of at least two
votes was required for conviction. More members of the Sanhedrin would
be brought in two at a time to vote whenever there was a majority of
only one for conviction. When all 71 had voted, the person was acquitted
if there was still a majority of only one.

Jesus appeared before the Sanhedrin on a charge of blasphemy (Matt.
26:65; John 19:7). Peter and John were charged with being false prophets
and deceivers of the people (Acts 4 and 5), Stephen with being a
blasphemer (Acts 6:13 ff), and Paul with being guilty of transgressing
the Mosaic law (Acts 23).

The Sanhedrin had the right of ordering arrests by its own officers; of
finally disposing of such cases as did not involve capital punishment. A
sentence of death had to be ratified by the Roman procurator.

