---
title: "Jews, Sects and Parties"
pdf: "sectsparties.pdf"
description: "a description of the various Jewish parties in the time of Christ, including Pharisees, Sadducees, Hellenists, Arameans."
template: lesson.jade
---


**Sects and Parties of the Jews 6**

**Sects and Parties of the Jews**

from “The Life and Epistles of St. Paul” by W. J. Conybeare and J. S.
Howson, Chapter 2.

The Sadducees and Pharisees are frequently mentioned in the New
Testament, and we are there informed of the tenets of these two
prevailing parties. The belief in a future state may be said to have
been an open question among the Jews, when our Lord appeared and
“brought life and immortality to light.” We find the **Sadducees**
established in the highest office of the priesthood, and possessed of
the greatest powers in the Sanhedrin; and yet they did not believe in
any future state, nor in any spiritual existence independent of the
body. The Sadducees said that there was “no resurrection, neither angel
nor spirit.” (Acts 23:8; Matt. 22:23,24) They do not appear to have held
doctrines which are commonly called licentious or immoral. On the
contrary, they adhered strictly to the moral tenets of the Law, as
opposed to its more formal technicalities. They did not overload the
Sacred books with traditions, or encumber the duties of life with a
multitude of minute observances. They were the disciples of reason
without enthusiasm – they made few proselytes – their numbers were not
great, and they were confined principally to the richer members of their
nation.

The **Pharisees** were the enthusiasts of later Judaism. They “compassed
sea and land to make one proselyte.” Their power and influence with the
mass of the people was immense. The loss of the national independence of
the Jews – the gradual extinction of their political life, directly by
the Romans, and indirectly by the family of Herod, caused their feelings
to really round the Law and their religion as the only center of unity
which now remained to them.

Those, therefore, who gave their energies to the interpretation and
exposition of the Law, not curtailing any of the doctrines which were
virtually contained in it and which had been revealed with more or less
clearness, but rather accumulating articles of faith, and multiplying
the requirements of devotion – who themselves practiced a severe and
ostentatious religion, being liberal in almsgiving, fasting frequently,
making long prayers, and carrying casuistic distinctions into the
smallest details of conduct – who consecrated, moreover, their best zeal
and exertions to the spread of the fame of Judaism, and to the increase
of the nation’s power in the only way which was not practicable – could
not fail to command the reverence of great numbers of the people.

It was no longer possible to fortify Jerusalem against the heathen; but
the Law could be fortified like an impregnable city. The place of the
brave is on the walls and in the front of the battle; and the hopes of
the nation rested on those who defended the sacred outworks, and made
successful inroads on the territories of the Gentiles.

Such were the Pharisees. And now, before proceeding to other features of
Judaism and their relation to the church, we can hardly help glancing at
St. Paul. He was “a Pharisee, the son of a Pharisee,” (Acts 23:6), and
he was educated by Gamaliel, (Acts 22:3), “a Pharisee”. (Acts 5:34) Both
his father and his teacher belonged to this sect. And on three distinct
occasions he tells us that he himself was a member of it.

Once when at his trial, before a mixed assembly of Pharisees and
Sadducees, the words just quoted were spoken, and his connection with
the Pharisees asserted with such effect that the feelings of this
popular party were immediately enlisted on his side. “And when he had so
said, there arose a dissension between the Pharisees and the Sadducees
and the multitude was divided … And there arose a great cry; and the
Scribes that were of the Pharisees’ part arose, and strove, saying, We
find no evil in this man.” (Acts 23)

The second time was when, on a calmer occasion, he was pleading before
Agrippa, and said to the king in the presence of Festus: “The Jews knew
me from the beginning, if they would testify, that after the most
straightest sect of our religion I lived a Pharisee.” (Acts 26) And once
more, when writing from Rome to the Philippians, he gives force to his
argument against the Judaizers, by telling them that if any other man
thought he had whereof he might trust in the flesh, he himself had more:
“circumcised the eighth day, of the stock of Israel, of the tribe of
Benjamin, a Hebrew of the Hebrews; as touching the Law, a Pharisee.”
(Phil. 3:4). And not only was he himself a Pharisee, but his father
also. He was “a Pharisee, the son of a Pharisee.” This short sentence
sums up nearly all we know of St. Paul’s parents. If we think of his
earliest lift, we are to conceive of him as born in a Pharisaic family,
and as brought up from his infancy in the “straightest sect of the Jews’
religion.”

His childhood was nurtured in the strictest belief. The stories of the
Old Testament, the angelic appearances, the prophetic visions, to him
were literally true. The needed no Sadducean explanation. The world of
spirits was a reality to him. The resurrection of the dead was an
article of his faith. And to exhort him to the practices of religion, he
had before him the example of his father, praying and walking with broad
phylacteries, scrupulous and exact in his legal observances. He had,
moreover, as it seems, the memory and tradition of ancestral piety; for
he tells us in one of his latest letters (2 Tim. 1:3) that he served God
“from his forefathers.”

All influences combined to make him “more exceedingly zealous of the
traditions of his fathers,” (Gal. 1:14) and “touching the righteousness
which is in the Law, blameless.” (Phil. 3:6) Everything tended to
prepare him to be an eminent member of that theological party, to which
so many of the Jews were looking for the preservation of their national
life, and the extension of their national creed.

But in this mention of the Pharisees and Sadducees we are far from
exhausting the subject of Jewish divisions, and far less from
enumerating all those phases of opinion which must have had some
connection with the growth of rising Christianity and all those elements
which may have contributed to form the character of the apostle of the
heathen. There was a sect in Judea which is not mentioned in the
Scriptures but which must have acquired considerable influence in the
time of the apostles, as may be inferred from the space devoted to it by
Josephus and Philo. These were the **Essenes**, who retired from
theological and political distractions of Jerusalem and the larger
towns, and founded peaceful communities in the desert or in villages,
where their life was spent in contemplation and in the practices of
ascetic piety. It has been suggested that John the Baptist was one of
them. There is no proof that this was the case, but we need not doubt
that they did represent religious cravings which Christianity satisfied.

Another party was that of the **Zealots**, who were as politically
fanatical as the Essenes were religiously contemplative, and whose zeal
was kindled with the burning desire to throw off the Roman yoke from the
neck of Israel. Very different from them were the Herodians, twice
mentioned in the Gospels (Mark 3:6; Matt 22:16; see Mark 12:13), who
held that the hopes of Judaism rested on the Herods, and who almost
looked to that family for the fulfillment of the prophecies of the
Messiah. And if we were simply enumerating the divisions and describing
the sects of the Jews, it would be necessary to mention the
**Therapeutae**, a widely spread community in Egypt, who lived even in
great seclusion that the Essenes in Judea. The **Samaritans** also would
require our attention. But we must turn from these sects and parties to
a wider division, which arose from the dispersion of the Hebrew people,
to which some space has been devoted in the preceding chapter.

Hellenists and Arameans

We have seen that early colonies of the Jews were settled in Babylonia
and Mesopotamia. Their connection with their brethren in Judea was
continually maintained; and they were bound to them by the link of a
common language. The Jews of Palestine and Syria, with those who lived
on the Tigris and Euphrates, interpreted the Scriptures through the
Targums or Chaldean paraphrases, and spoke kindred dialects of the
language of Aram; and hence they were called Aramean Jews.

We have also had occasion to notice that other dispersion of the nation
through those countries where Greek was spoken. Their settlements began
with Alexander’s conquests and were continued under the successors of
those who partitioned his empire. Alexandria was their capital. They use
the Septuagint translation of the Bible, and they were commonly called
**Hellenists**, or Jews of the Grecian speech.

The mere difference of language would account in some degree for the
mutual dislike with which we know that these two sections of the Jewish
race regarded one another. We were all aware how closely the use of a
hereditary dialect is bound up with the warmest feelings of the heart.
And in this case the Aramean language was the sacred tongue of
Palestine. It is true that the tradition of the language of the Jews had
been broken, as the continuity of their political life had been rudely
interrupted. The Hebrew of the time of Christ was not the oldest Hebrew
of the Israelites; but it was a kindred dialect, and old enough to
command a reverent affections. Though not the language of Moses and
David, it was that of Ezra and Nehemiah. And it is not unnatural that
the **Arameans** should have revolted from the speech of the Greek
idolaters and the tyrant Antiochus, a speech which they associated
moreover with innovating doctrines and dangerous speculations.

For the division went deeper than a mere superficial diversity of
speech. It was not only a division, like the modern one of German and
Spanish Jews, where those who hold substantially the same doctrines have
accidentally been led to speak different languages. But there was
diversity of religious views and opinions. This is not the place for
examining that system of mystic interpretation called the Kabbala, and
for determining how far its origin might be due to Alexandria or to
Babylon. It is enough to say, generally, that in the Aramean theology,
Oriental elements prevailed rather than Greek, and that the subject of
Babylonian influences has more connection with the life of St. Peter
than that of St. Paul.

The Hellenists, on the other hand, or Jews who spoke Greek, who lived in
Greek countries, and were influenced by Greek civilization, are
associated in the closest manner with the Apostle of the Gentiles. They
are more than once mentioned in the Acts, where our English translation
names them “Grecians” to distinguish them from the heather or proselyte
“Greeks.” Alexandria was the metropolis of their theology. Philo was
their great representative. He was an old man when St. Paul was in his
maturity; his writings were probably known to the apostles; and they
have descended with the inspired Epistles to our own day. The work of
the learned Hellenists may be briefly described as this – to accommodate
Jewish doctrines to the mind of the Greeks, and to make the Greek
language express the mind of the Jews. The Hebrew principles were
“disengaged as much as possible from local and national conditions, and
presented in a form adapted to the Hellenic world.”

All this was hateful to the Arameans. The men of the East rose up
against those of the West. The Greek learning was not more repugnant to
the Roman Cato that it was to the strict Hebrews. They had a saying,
“Cursed by he who teaches his son the learning of the Greeks.” We could
imagine them using the words of the prophet Joel (3:6), “The children of
Judah and the children of Jerusalem have ye sold unto the Grecians, that
ye might remove them from their border,” and we cannot be surprised that
even in the deep peace and charity of the Church’s earliest days, this
inveterate division reappeared, and that “when the number of the
disciples was multiplied, there arose a murmuring of the Grecians
against the Hebrews.” (Acts 6:1)

It would be an interesting subject of inquiry to ascertain in what
proportions these two parties were distributed in the different
countries where the Jews were dispersed, in what places they can into
the strongest collision, and how far they were fused and united
together. In the city of Alexandria, the emporium of Greek commerce from
the time of its foundation, where, since the earliest Ptolemies,
literature, philosophy, and criticism had never ceased to excite the
utmost intellectual activity, where the Septuagint translation of the
Scripture had been made, and where a Jewish temple and ceremonial
worship had been established in rivalry to that in Jerusalem, there is
no doubt that the Hellenistic element largely prevailed. But although
(strictly speaking) the –Alexandrian Jews were nearly all Hellenites, it
does not follow that they were all Hellenizers. In other words, although
their speech and the Scriptures were Greek, the theological views of
many among them undoubtedly remained Hebrew.

There must have been many who were attached to the traditions of
Palestine, and who looked suspiciously on their more speculative
brethren; and we have no difficulty in recognizing the picture presented
in a pleasing German fiction, which describes the debates and struggles
of the two tendencies in this city, to be very correct. In Palestine
itself, we have every reason to believe that the native population was
entirely Aramean, though there was no lack of Hellenistic synagogues
(see Acts 6:9) in Jerusalem, which at the seasons of the festivals would
be crowded with foreign pilgrims, and become the scene of animated
discussions. Syria was connected by the link of language with Palestine
and Babylonia; but Antioch, its metropolis, commercially and
politically, resembled Alexandria; and it is probable that, when
Barnabas and Saul were establishing the great Christian community in
that city, the majority of the Jews were “Grecians” rather than
“Hebrews.” In Asia Minor we should at first sight be tempted to imagine
that the Grecian tendency would predominate; but when we find that
Antiochus brought Babylonian Jews into Lydia and Phrygia, we must not
make too confident a conclusion in this direction. We have ground for
imagining that many Israelitish families in the remote districts
(possibly that of Timothy at Lystra) may have cherished the forms of the
traditional faith of the eastern Jews, and lived uninfluenced by
Hellenistic novelties.

The residents in maritime and commercial towns would not be strangers to
the western developments of religious doctrines; and when Apollos came
from Alexandria to Ephesus (Acts 18:24), he would find himself in a
theological atmosphere not very different from that of his native city.
Tarsus in Cilicia will naturally be included under the same class of
cities of the West, by those who remember Strabo’s assertion that in
literature and philosophy its fame exceeded that of Athens and
Alexandria. At the same time, we cannot be sure that the very celebrity
of its heathen schools might not induce the families of Jewish residents
to retire all the more strictly into a religious Hebrew seclusion.

That such a seclusion of their family from Gentile influences was
maintained by the parents of St. Paul is highly probable. We have no
means of knowing how long they themselves, or their ancestors, had been
Jews of the dispersion. A tradition is mentioned by Jerome that they
cane originally from Giscala, a town in Galilee, when it was stormed by
the Romans. The story involves an anachronism and contradicts the Acts
of the Apostles (Acts 22:3). Yet it need not be entirely disregarded,
especially when we find St. Paul speaking of himself as “a Hebrew of the
Hebrews” and when we remember that the word “Hebrew” is used for an
Aramaic Jew, as opposed to a “Grecian” or “Hellenist.” Nor is it
unlikely in itself that before they settled in Tarsus, the family had
belonged to the Eastern dispersion, or to the Jews of Palestine. But,
however this may be, St. Paul himself must be called a Hellenist;
because the language of his infancy was that idiom of the Grecian Jews
in which all his letters were written. Though, in conformity with the
strong feeling of the Jews of all times, he might learn his earliest
sentences from the Scripture in Hebrew, yet he was familiar with the
Septuagint translation at an early age.

It is observed that when he quotes from the Old Testament, his
quotations are from that version/ and that, not only when he cites its
very words, but when (as if often the case) he quotes it from memory.
Considering the accurate knowledge of the original Hebrew which he must
have acquired under Gamaliel at Jerusalem, it has been inferred that
this can only arise from his having been thoroughly imbued at an earlier
period with the Hellenistic scriptures. The readiness, too, with which
he expressed himself in Greek, even before such an audience as that upon
the Areopagus at Athens, shows a command of the language which a Jew
would not, in all probability, have attained, had not Greek been the
familiar speech of his childhood.

But still the vernacular Hebrew of Palestine would not have been a
foreign tongue to the infant Saul; on the contrary, he may have heard it
spoken almost as often as the Greek. For no doubt his parents, proud of
their Jewish origin, and living comparatively near to Palestine, would
retain the power of conversing with their friends from there in the
ancient speech.. Mercantile connections from the Syrian coast would be
frequently arriving, whose discourse would be in Aramaic; and in all
probability there were kinsfolk still settled in Judea, as we afterwards
find the nephew of St. Paul in Jerusalem (Acts 23:16).

We may compare the situation of such a family (so far as concerns heir
language) to that of the French Huguenots who settles in London after
the revocation of the Edict of Nantes. These French families, though
they soon learned to use the English as the medium of the common
intercourse and the language of their household, yet, for several
generations, spoke French with equal familiarity and greater affection.

Moreover, it may be considered as certain that the family of St. Paul,
though Hellenistic in speech, were no Hellenizers in theology; they were
not at all inclined to adopt Greek habits or Greek opinions. The manner
in which St. Paul speaks of himself, his father, and his ancestors,
implies the most uncontaminated hereditary Judaism. “Are they Hebrews?
So am I. Are they Israelites? So am I\> Are they the seed of Abraham? So
am I.” (2 Cor. 11:22) “A Pharisee” and “the son of a Pharisee.”
“Circumcised the eighth day, of the stock of Israel, of the tribe of
Benjamin, a Hebrew of the Hebrews.”

