---
title: Sennacherib
template: lesson.jade
---


<sup>Sennacherib</sup>

**Sennacherib**- King of Assyria and Babylonia (705–681 b.c.), son of
Sargon II and father of Esarhaddon. He besieged Jerusalem in the days of
Hezekiah. Sennacherib left copious records of his reign (cf. ARAB, II,
§§ 115–198), the final edition of his annals being known as the Taylor
Prism (DOTT, Plate 4), and a better copy known as the Oriental Institute
Prism (cf. Luckenbill, ANET, pp. 287f).

I. Military Campaigns
---------------------

Sargon II was killed in battle at Tabalu, N of the Taurus Mountains, in
the month of Ab, 705 b.c., and on the twelfth of the same month his son
Sennacherib ascended the throne of Assyria. Since Sennacherib was well
trained, both in military and in administrative matters, the transition
of government was seemingly smooth and no insurrections broke out.
Nevertheless Babylon was always a problem for Assyria.

Merodach-baladan, king of Babylon (721–710), had fled when Sargon
invaded Babylon (710 b.c.), but apparently had been allowed to continue
as ruler of the province of Bit-Yakin. When Sargon died Merodach-baladan
initiated a number of efforts at revolt. Elam obviously was involved,
for with its help Merodach-baladan seized the throne from
*Marduk-zākir-šumi* who had reigned but a month (703 b.c.). It is likely
that Merodach-baladan sent envoys to Hezekiah at this time (2 K. 20:12);
he may have made some overtures also to Egypt as well as to several
city-states in Hatti (Syria).

Sennacherib reported that in his first campaign he marched on Babylon,
and at Kish (about 20 km [12 mi] SE of Babylon) he inflicted a
terrifying defeat. Merodach-baladan saved his life by fleeing.
Sennacherib continued on, plundering the treasury at Babylon and much of
*Bīt-Yakin*, a region at the northern end of the Persian Gulf (ARAB, II,
§§ 234f, 257–267, 270–76, 301–303, 345). He placed Bel-ibni, a
Babylonian who had served in the palace at Assyria (ARAB, II, § 263), on
the throne as king of Babylon (702–700 b.c.), and carried back to
Nineveh much booty and many captives (see ARAB, II, §§ 234, 261, 267,
272).

With Sennacherib’s attention on Babylonia it was obviously the time for
revolt in other regions. Accordingly, Sennacherib’s second campaign was
against tribes E of the Tigris (ARAB, II, §§ 236–38, 277–282, 304–308,
346). Again he brought back much plunder and many captives. The Medes
bought him off by paying tribute.

In his third campaign (ca 701 b.c.) Sennacherib moved against the west.
He captured the city-states from Tyre to Sidon (cf. ARAB, II, § 239;
DOTT, pp. 66 and 68 n a; ANET, p. 287), and continued down the coast
putting cities of the Philistine Plain and Shephelah under tribute.
According to his rather full account (ARAB, II, §§ 239f, 309–312; ANET,
pp. 287f; DOTT, pp. 64–69; *CPOT*, 340–44), he forced Hezekiah to
release Padi, the king of Ekron who had been loyal to Assyria and
restored him to his throne; and he captured 46 of Hezekiah’s strong,
walled cities, plundered them, and gave them to the kings of Ashdod,
Ashkelon, Ekron, and Gaza. Hezekiah he shut “like a caged bird” in
Jerusalem, imposed a heavy tribute (30 talents of gold, 800 talents of
silver, all kinds of palace treasures, his daughters, palace women, male
and female singers), and carried 200,150 persons in addition to many
animals to Nineveh. For the problem of harmonizing Sennacherib’s account
with the biblical accounts, see IV below.

From his records we know that Sennacherib conducted at least eight
campaigns. The fourth and sixth, like the first, were against
*Bīt-Yakin*. The fifth campaign was against tribes in the mountains E of
the Tigris (ARAB, II, §§ 244f, 293–98, 316f), accounts of which contain
some of the fine descriptive writing for which Sennacherib is noted. The
seventh campaign was against Elam, principally to secure the loyalty of
the border cities (ARAB, II, §§ 248–251, 354f).

The eighth campaign was also against Elam (ARAB, II, §§ 252–54, 352,
356f). In this campaign the battle of Halule took place (ca 690 b.c.),
certainly one of the bloodiest waged by Sennacherib, the description of
which is breathtaking (cf. ARAB, II, §§ 253f). On his return Sennacherib
sacked Babylon, diverted the canals to flood the city “that in days to
come the site of that city … might not be remembered” (ARAB, II, § 341).
Sennacherib thereafter called himself “king of Sumer and Akkad” (cf. J.
Oates, *Babylon* [1979], p. 120), not “king of Babylon,” for he had not
taken the hands of Marduk. In fact, Marduk had been carried to Asshur.
It was as though Sennacherib deliberately broke the traditional
importance of Marduk and Babylon. The Babylonian Chronicle, following
the account of the capture of Babylon, records, “During eight years
there was no king in Babylon” (col 3, line 28; Rogers, p. 215) — which
would be the years 689–681. The King List from Asshur, however, lists
Sennacherib as “king of Assyria and Babylon” (col 4, line 12; ARAB, II,
§§ 1188, p. 425; ANET, p. 273).

There are other, undated military actions to be accounted for: an
expedition against Arabia (ARAB, II, § 358); a siege of Lachish recorded
on wall reliefs at Nineveh (ARAB, II, § 489; AAAO, Plate 101) and
mentioned in the OT (2 K. 18:13–19:8); an attack on Egypt, if
Herodotus’s account is to be believed (Herodotus ii.141); a revolt and a
palace coup which resulted in the assassination of Sennacherib (recorded
by his son Esarhaddon, ARAB, II, §§ 501–506; ANET, pp. 289f). The
problems will be considered in IV below.

II. Building Projects
---------------------

As soon as Sennacherib became king, he began his building projects at
Nineveh, which had lain in ruins for years. Using captive Chaldeans,
Arameans, Manneans, and peoples from Cilicia (ARAB, II, § 364), he built
the “Palace without a Rival,” apparently having decided even while his
father was ruling from *Dūr-Ṣarrukin* (Khorsabad) to abandon that
location. He razed the former palace, the foundations of which had been
cut away by the raging waters of the Tebiltu when it was in spate (ARAB,
II, § 365). Then he changed the course of the river, and using great
boulders and stone slabs built a seawall to prevent future erosion while
enlarging the area (ARAB, II, § 385). Backfilling this wall, he built a
larger, higher platform for the palace, 440 by 700 cubits (about 220 by
350 m [725 by 1155 ft], using the “great cubit” which was about 10%
larger than the standard cubit; cf. ARAB, II, § 388). Excavations showed
that the palace measured 180 by 190 m (× ft; cf. EncBrit [1970], XVI,
528 [M. Mallowan]). The palace consisted of more than 80 rooms, with
9,800 feet of stone slabs, inscriptions, and low-reliefs, including the
famous reliefs depicting the siege of Lachish, that lined the walls. The
roof consisted of great cedar beams from the Amanus Mountains; the doors
of great panels of cedar wood. Colossal bulls, lions, cows, and sheep
were placed at strategic locations.

The Khosr river also emptied into the Tigris near Nineveh; this was
dammed and used to irrigate the parks and orchards which Sennacherib
installed. To augment the waters of this river, he dug eighteen canals
(ARAB, II, § 332). From a dam at Bavian (M. Beek, *Atlas of Mesopotamia*
[1962], Map 11) he brought water by a canal 50 km (30 mi) long. To slow
down the waters he formed a swamp and set out a cane-brake, turning the
area into a preserve for wild animals (ARAB, II, § 401), The modern
course of the Khosr is about 1350 m (4500 ft) from the ancient city
walls.

The circumference of the city he enlarged from 9,300 cubits to 21,815
great cubits (12 km [7.5 mi]; ARAB, II, § 396); after the excavations,
G. Smith reported that the circumference of the wall was 8 mi (12.8 km),
which is in reasonable agreement with Sennacherib’s figures (ISBE, IV
[1929], 2148). A wide moat (100 great cubits [50 m, 165 ft]) surrounded
the wall (ARAB, II, § 474).

Sennacherib brought trees and plants from distant places to create a
great park “like unto Mt. Amanus” (ARAB, II, § 376). He straightened and
widened the suqs (market streets) (ARAB, II, § 474), built a royal road
52 great cubits wide (26 m [86 ft]) (ARAB, II, § 475), which he made to
pass over a bridge built of burnt brick and white limestone (ARAB, II, §
381). All of this was largely completed by the third year of his reign,
for inscriptions containing the records are dated in the eponymy of
Nabuilu (702 b.c.) and in the eponymy of Mutunu (700 b.c.). Sennacherib
made Nineveh’s splendor to rival that of ancient Babylon.

There were further building projects at Asshur (ARAB, II, § 452ff), at
Tarbasi (modern Sherif Khan; ARAB II, § 480), and other places.

III. Literary Ability
---------------------

Sennacherib’s ability to paint graphic pictures is evidenced in many of
his inscriptions. The account of the siege of Jerusalem has so often
been quoted that only a brief portion will be repeated: “As for Hezekiah
the Judean who did not submit to my yoke, 46 of his strong, walled
cities, as well as the small cities in their neighborhood, which were
without number, by escalade and by bringing up siege engines, by
attacking and storming on foot, by mines, tunnels, and breaches, I
besieged and took … . Himself like a caged bird I shut up in Jerusalem,
his royal city” (ARAB, II, § 240; cf. ANET. pp. 287f).

Of the campaign in the hills E of the Tigris he described his
experiences: “I had my camp pitched at the foot of Mt. Nipur and with my
picked bodyguard and my relentless warriors, I like a strong wild-ox
went before them. Gullies, mountain torrents and waterfalls, dangerous
cliffs, I surmounted in my sedan chair. Where it was too steep for mv
chair, I advanced on foot. Like a young gazelle I mounted the high peaks
in pursuit of them” (ARAB, II, § 244).

His descriptions of the battle of Halule contains these graphic words:
“Like a lion I raged. I put on (my) coat of mail. (My) helmet, emblem of
victory, I placed upon my head. My great battle chariot, which brings
low the foe, I hurriedly mounted in the anger of my heart. The mighty
bow which Assur had given me, I seized in my hands; the javelin,
piercing to the life, I grasped” (ARAB, II, § 253; the account continues
in § 254).

To read his records is also an education in the materials used in
building, the locations from which these materials were brought, and
even some of the methods used. For example: “Beams of cedar, the product
of Mt.Amanus, which they dragged with difficulty out of (those) distant
mountains, I stretched across their ceilings (?). Great door-leaves of
cyprus, whose odor is pleasant as they are opened and closed, I bound
with a band of shining copper and set them up in their doors” (ARAB, II,
§ 366). “With the keen understanding which Ea lord of wisdom gave me, I
made clay molds for all the copper work” (ARAB, II, § 431). To fashion
the colossal lions, “open at the knees, which no king before my time had
fashioned” (ARAB, II, § 412), he gives the following method: “I built a
form of clay and poured bronze into it, as in making half-shekel pieces”
(ARAB, II, § 413).

IV. One or Two Invasions of Judah?
----------------------------------

The theory that Sennacherib made two invasions into southern Palestine,
one in 701 b.c. and the other in 688/87 b.c. has been debated for a
century or more (cf. H. H. Rowley, *Men of God* [1963], pp. 98–132, in
which he defended the one-invasion view). L. L. Honor presented the
evidence for both theories in *Sennacherib’s Invasion of Palestine*
(1926, repr 1966). W. F. Albright espoused the two-invasion view (JQR,
24 [1934], 370f) and continued to hold it despite criticism (cf. FSAC,
p. 314 n 53), as did his student J. Bright, BHI, [3rd ed 1972], pp.
298–309). B. S. Childs reviewed the evidence without drawing a
conclusion (*Isaiah and the Assyrian Crisis* [SBT, 2/3, 1967]).

The argument for one campaign may be summarized briefly: Sennacherib’s
accounts mention only one campaign, and the OT likewise mentions only
one campaign (2 K. 18:17–19:37). The basis for the two-campaign theory
is found in Sennacherib’s Lachish reliefs, Lachish not being mentioned
in his campaign of 701 b.c.; the biblical mention of the occupation of
Lachish, a battle with Tirhakah of Egypt (2 K. 19:8f), and the
juxtaposition of Sennacherib’s hasty retreat and his assassination
(19:35–37), which does not fit with an invasion in 701 and the
assassination in 681 b.c. Further, the fact that Isa. 36:1–22 closely
parallels the account in 2 Kings, except that it omits 2 K. 18:14–16 —
which is precisely the portion that most closely parallels Sennacherib’s
account — suggests to some scholars that two invasions have been merged
in the account in 2 Kings. In sum: Sennacherib’s first invasion resulted
in the seige of Jerusalem, the payment of tribute by Hezekiah, etc., as
presented in Sennacherib’s third campaign and in 2 K. 18:13–16; in the
second invasion Egyptian forces came to the aid of Hezekiah and a crisis
developed in the Assyrian camp, described in Herodotus as mice eating
the leather of their weapons (ii.141; LAP [2nd ed, 1959], pp. 213f), and
in the Bible as an act of “the angel of the Lord” that resulted in the
death of 185,000 Assyrian soldiers and Sennacherib’s hasty retreat (2 K.
19:35f).

Leaving aside the difficulties in the biblical text — such as whether
Lachish (2 K. 18:14ff) was occupied by Sennacherib in 701 or later, the
shift of scene from Lachish to Libnah (19:8), the promise of Isaiah that
Sennacherib would not come to the city (19:32) contrasted with the
account of the siege and the payment of tribute (18:13–18) — as matters
to be discussed in commentaries, one must consider the historical and
archeological data. Unless one dismisses the biblical account as
historically worthless and Herodotus as hopelessly confused, these
historical data must be somehow integrated into Sennacherib’s accounts.

Two studies have undertaken this task. W. H. Shea took up three sets of
data from Assyria, Palestine, and Egypt that appear to support a second
invasion. From Assyria, Shea cited a text concerning the siege of Azekah
and other Philistine cities that refers to “Anshar my lord.” Shea noted
that the use of Anshar as a supporting deity is not found until after
the destruction of Babylon in 689 b.c. Further, Isaiah’s reference to
Sennacherib’s feats in hydraulic engineering (2 K. 19:24, reading
*māṣôr* as [Mt.] Musri; cf. ARAB, II, § 401) has to be later than the
event, which is dated in 694 b.c. (cf. H. Tawil, JNES, 41 [1982],
195–206).

From Palestine, Shea introduced the Adon Papyrus, found at Saqqârah,
which appears to be an appeal from Adon, the ruler of Ekron, for
Egyptian support in the face of an Assyrian invasion. Since Adon refers
to “the king of Babylon,” this would require a date after 689. The
evidence is supportive but not fully convincing.

From Egypt a text formerly attributed to Sheshonq I is now attributed to
Tirhakah. It refers to an earlier debacle in Asia, probably Palestine,
which could have been his defeat by Sennacherib, but it must be dated
later than 701, for evidence from Egypt places the reign of Shabaka
713–699. Since the reign of Shabataka (Shebitku) must therefore be after
699, he could not have sent Tirhakah into battle prior to that date.
Tirhakah’s campaign and battle with Sennacherib, therefore, could not
have been in 701, but requires a later date.

R. W. Younker’s approach is quite different. He reasoned that if
Sennacherib conducted two campaigns into Judah, archeological evidence
of two campaigns should exist, either in sites where two destructions or
occupations are attested, or in sites where the destruction or
occupation is dated to the earlier or the later invasion. He found nine
such sites. Of these, six witness to two destructions in the late 8th or
early 7th cent; Tel Lahav, Tel ’Erani (= Libnah?), Tell Beit Mirsim
(Ashan?), Tel Beersheva, Arad, and Tell ez-Zakariyeh (Azekah). The other
three sites, Tel Miqne (Ekron), Tel Batash (Timna), and Lachish, yield
evidence of only one destruction, later than 701 b.c. The evidence
therefore supports the conclusion that Sennacherib conducted two
campaigns into Judah.

It is not yet possible to claim that the basis for two campaigns is
beyond dispute; hence J. Bright’s statement is still valid: “Though new
evidence may alter the picture, and though dogmatism is certainly to be
avoided, a two- campaign theory seems at present to satisfy the evidence
best” (BHI, 3rd ed, p. 309).

V. Death
--------

According to Esarhaddon’s records, his father Sennacherib had named him
over his brothers as successor. “To gain the kingship they slew
Sennacherib their father” (ARAB, II, § 502). Esarhaddon was on a
campaign in Hanigalbat, and he hastened back to secure the throne.
According to the Babylonian Chronicle, Sennacherib was murdered by “one”
of his sons (DOTT, p. 72). This has sometimes been taken to contradict
the biblical account, which names Adrammelech and Sharezer as the
assassins (2 K. 19:37). Esarhaddon’s words, “they slew” (cf. ANET, p.
288), should settle the matter. Details given in the biblical acount are
otherwise not known.

***Bibliography.***—W. F. Albright BASOR, 130 (Apr. 1953), 8–11; W. H.
Shea, JBL, 104 (1985) 401–418; K. A. Kitchen, *Ancient Orient and OT*
(1966), pp. 82–84; D. D. Luckenbill, *Annals of Sennacherib* (1924); C.
van Leeuwen, “Sancherib devant Jérusalem,” *Oudtestamentische Stüdien*,
14 (1965), 245–272; S. H. Horn, AUSS, 4 (1966), 1–28; CAH, 3 (1st ed,
1925), 61–79; R. W. Younker, BASOR, forthcoming; R. Rogers, *Cuneiform
Parallels to the OT* (1912).

W. S. LaSor

From the International Standard Bible Encyclopedia

