---
title: "Septuagint"
pdf: "septuagint.pdf"
description: "Septuagint (sometimes abbreviated LXX) is the name given to the Greek translation of the Jewish Scriptures."
template: topic.jade
---


**Septuagint 2**

**Septuagint**

Septuagint – What is it? <sup>**[<sup>1</sup>](#sdfootnote1sym)**</sup>
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

Septuagint (sometimes abbreviated LXX) is the name given to the Greek
translation of the Jewish Scriptures. The Septuagint has its origin in
Alexandria, Egypt and was translated between 300-200 BC. Widely used
among Hellenistic Jews, this Greek translation was produced because many
Jews spread throughout the empire were beginning to lose their Hebrew
language. The process of translating the Hebrew to Greek also gave many
non-Jews a glimpse into Judaism. According to an ancient document called
the *Letter of Aristeas*, it is believed that 70 to 72 Jewish scholars
were commissioned during the reign of Ptolemy Philadelphus to carry out
the task of translation. The term “Septuagint” means seventy in Latin,
and the text is so named to the credit of these 70 scholars.

Septuagint – Influence on Christianity
--------------------------------------

The Septuagint was also a source of the Old Testament for early
Christians during the first few centuries AD. Many early Christians
spoke and read Greek, thus they relied on the Septuagint translation for
most of their understanding of the Old Testament. The New Testament
writers also relied heavily on the Septuagint, as a majority of Old
Testament quotes cited in the New Testament are quoted directly from the
Septuagint (others are quoted from the Hebrew texts). Greek church
fathers are also known to have quoted from the Septuagint. Even today,
the Eastern Orthodox Church relies on the Septuagint for its Old
Testament teachings. Some modern Bible translations also use the
Septuagint along side Hebrew manuscripts as their source text.

What Does the Septuagint Contain
--------------------------------

The Septuagint contains the standard 39 books of the Old Testament
canon, as well as certain apocryphal books. The term “Apocrypha” was
coined by the fifth-century biblical scholar, Jerome, and generally
refers to the set of ancient Jewish writings written during the period
between the last book in the Jewish scriptures, Malachi, and the arrival
of Jesus Christ. The apocryphal books include Judith, Tobit, Baruch,
Sirach (or Ecclesiasticus), the Wisdom of Solomon, First and Second
Maccabees, the two Books of Esdras, additions to the Book of Esther,
additions to the Book of Daniel, and the Prayer of Manasseh.

The Apocryphal books were included in the Septuagint for historical and
religious purposes, but are not recognized by Protestant Christians or
Orthodox Jews as canonical (inspired by God). Most reformed teachers
will point out that the New Testament writers never quoted from the
Apocryphal books, and that the Apocrypha was never considered part of
the canonical Jewish scripture. However, the Roman Catholic Church and
the Orthodox churches include the Apocrypha in their Bible (except for
the books of Esdras and the Prayer of Manasseh).

Septuagint - Is it a Reliable Translation?
------------------------------------------

Since the Septuagint is a translation, scholars speculate if it
accurately reflects the Hebrew scriptures of the 2nd century BC. A close
examination of the Septuagint and the Masoretic Text (the early Hebrew
text of the Old Testament) show slight variations. Were these errors in
translation, or are the Septuagint and Masoretic Text based on slightly
different Hebrew manuscripts? The discovery of the Dead Sea Scrolls has
helped to shed light on this question. Discovered in the Qumran region
near the Dead Sea beginning in 1947, these scrolls are dated to as early
as 200 BC and contain parts of every book in the Old Testament except
Esther. Comparisons of the Dead Sea Scrolls to the Masoretic Text and
the Septuagint show that where there are differences between the
Masoretic Text and the Septuagint, approximately 95% of those
differences are shared between the Dead Sea Scrolls and the Masoretic
text, while only 5% of those differences are shared between the Dead Sea
Scrolls and the Septuagint. Does this mean that the Septuagint is
unreliable and that our Old Testament is wrought with contradictory
sources? No. It is imperative to note that these “variations” are
extremely minor (i.e., grammatical errors, spelling differences or
missing words) and do not affect the meaning of sentences and
paragraphs. (An exception is the book of Jeremiah, in which the actual
passages are arranged differently.) None of the differences, however,
come close to affecting any area of teaching or doctrine. The majority
of the Septuagint, Masoretic Text and the Dead Sea Scrolls are
remarkably similar and have dispelled unfounded theories that the
Biblical text has been corrupted by time and conspiracy. Furthermore,
these variations do not call into question the infallibility of God in
preserving His word. Although the original documents are inerrant,
translators and scribes are human beings and are thus prone to making
slight errors in translation and copying (Hebrew scribal rules attest to
how exacting scribes were). Even then, the Bible has redundancy built
into its text, and anything significant is told more than once. If
grammatical mistakes were introduced that makes a point unclear, it
would be clarified in several other places in scripture.

Septuagint - Dramatic Evidence for the Credibility of Messianic Prophecy
------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Septuagint and the Dead Sea Scrolls establish a very dramatic piece
of evidence for Christianity – that the Old Testament prophecies of the
coming Messiah unquestionably predated the time that Jesus Christ walked
the earth. All theories of 1st Century AD conspiracies and prophecy
manipulation go out the door when we realize that prophetic scripture
like Isaiah 53 and Psalm 22 were fixed in written form at least 100
years before Christ, and probably many more. Again, despite time,
persecution, and the incredibly minor instances of scribal mistakes, the
Septuagint is just another example of how the Biblical text has remained
faithful in its message and theme. The Holy Bible is truly a divinely
inspired and preserved letter from God that is deserving of our time and
attention.

“The grass withers and the flowers fall, but the word of our God stands
forever.” (Isaiah 40:8)

====================

