---
title: "Origins of the Talmud"
indexTitle: "Talmud, Origins"
pdf: "talmudhistory.pdf"
description: "The name \"Talmud\" means \"teaching\" or \"study\" and refers to the oral law which has been taught to the children of Israel since the time of Moses."
tableOfContents: true
template: topic.jade
---

The name “Talmud” means “teaching” or “study” and refers to the oral law
which has been taught to the children of Israel since the time of Moses.

The name “written law” was given to the Old Testament, and “oral law”
refers to all the teachings of the “sages” consisting of comments on the
text of the Bible. It has always been the teacher’s duty to explain and
comment on the laws and ordinances until the people understood them
thoroughly and knew them by heart. The descendants of Aaron, the
priesthood, was commissioned to teach the Bible to the people. Although
there are very few historical records to show us how this was
accomplished from the days of Moses until the time of the Kingdom, it is
apparent that the teaching ministry was unbroken during all those
centuries.

Figurative interpretation of the Bible began in the days when the Great
Assembly resolved to keep themselves distinct from the Samaritans, who
adhered to the literal interpretation of the text. This study began to
make progress from approximately the time of the Greek conquest of
Judea, when the term “Great Assembly” was changed to the Greek
“Sanhedrin.” In spread into every college where prominent teachers were
charged with leading congregations in instruction of the Law, of
ordinances relating to things clean and unclean, to rights of property,
and to crime.

All of the scholars who interpreted the Bible passages figuratively were
called “Pharisees.” The Pharisees interpretations began to be codified
and collected in the work that eventually became the Talmud.

At the time of Antiochus Epiphanes the high priesthood passed from the
descendants of Zadok (David’s high priest) to other families, and
finally came into the possession of the Maccabees, who also were not
descendants of the house of Zadok. These leaders began to differ from
the Pharisees in the interpretation of the Torah (the Bible); and they
began to explain the texts on the basis of oral tradition. They founded
a distinct sect, called “Sadducees” (after Zadok). They disputed with
the Pharisees and with their Talmud; and they persecuted the Pharisees
to the utmost. Since the Maccabees were the nation’s leaders and were
men of power and wealth and held sway in Palestine, they joined with the
Samaritans in an attempt to eradicate the trend toward figurative
interpretation of the Bible.

Antiochus Epiphanes decreed that Pharisees who did not discontinue their
studies would be executed; that circumcision was to be performed in a
manner other than that prescribed by the Pharisees; that the Sabbath
should not be observed according to the Pharisees’ interpretations, etc.
The obvious intention was to destroy the Talmud and anyone who adhered
to it.

These persecutions against the Talmud usually ended in favor of the
Sadducees until the time of Johanan the High Priest. Then, the Pharisees
triumphed over their enemies and the oral law became the absorbing
subject of the Sanhedrin. The Talmud began to be studies in all the
colleges of Palestine, Egypt, and wherever Jews lived.

**The Talmud of the Time of Christ**

After the triumph of the Pharisees over the Sadducees, the Talmud
developed rapidly. The numbers of scholars and followers of the Talmud
increased quickly, and the colleges of Talmudic study developed
steadily, until at the beginning of the Christian Era the schools of
Hillel and Schammai had become important. Although there were still
plenty of enemies arising, such as the Essenes and other sects who were
opposed to particular doctrines, they did not have the power to hinder
the progress of the Talmud or weaken its influence.

People from all over the world, including many in high places, came to
learn the doctrines and morality of the Talmud, which was already
recognized as having a great moral contrast to the teachings of the
priests of the heathen religions. Hillel the Elder received many of
these people with enthusiasm. His grandson, Rabban Gamaliel the Elder,
the teacher of Saul of Tarsus, continued the teaching of Hillel in the
Talmudic school in Jerusalem.

The period of good fortune was only of short duration, however, as the
time of the destruction of the Temple (70 AD) was near, and the victims
of the sword (and of hunger) were many. Gamaliel the Elder was
persecuted, and his son Simeon ben Gamaliel, was slain. In fact, if
Rabbi Johanan ben Zakkai had not risked his life to petition Vespasian
to spare the Sanhedrin, who had been compelled during the Roman conquest
of Jerusalem to move their college to Jamnia, there would have remained
no vestige of the Talmud, since most of those who cherished it had
passed away by the sword, by hunger, or by plague..

The study of the Talmud increased after the destruction of the Temple,
but with great difficulty. There were continuous disputes with Sadducees
and other sects, and undoubtedly with Christians.

Principal resources for this study are:

Rodkinson, Michael L, “The History of the Talmud”, The Talmud Society,
Boston, 1918.

Steinsaltz, Rabbi Adin, “The Essential Talmud”, Jason Aronson Inc.,
Northvale, NJ, 1992

Edersheim, Alfred, “The Life and Times of Jesus the Messiah”

