---
title: Talmud - 39 Categories Of Work
template: topic.jade
description: Outline of the Talmud's categories of ritual work.
toc: true
---


**The 39 Categories of Work Forbidden on the Sabbath**

In order to present some idea of Sabbath rest, we will here outline the
thirty-nine categories of ritual work. This is only the barest of
outlines, and is meant to present the spirit, rather than the details of
the law. For the latter, the appropriate codes should be consulted.

These are the thirty-nine categories:

1. Carrying
-----------

This category involves carrying in a public place.

This is one of the few categories of work that is actually mentioned in
the Torah. It is also the very first type of work that was prohibited.

As we discussed earlier, the initial commandment of the Sabbath was
given in connection with the Manna. But what possible type of work was
involved in gathering a portion of Manna for one’s family? Obviously,
this is carrying. Thus, when Moses told the people (Ex. 16:29), “Let no
man leave his place on the seventh day,” he was telling them that the
could not carry the Manna.

The Torah also gives an account of a man who was put to death for
gathering wood on the Sabbath. Here again, according to some
commentators his violation of the Sabbath involved carrying.

In a third place, the Prophet Jeremiah specifically warns his people not
to carry on the Sabbath. He says (Jer. 17:21-22), “Take heed and carry
no burdens on the Sabbath … Also do not carry any burden out of your
houses on the Sabbath.”

Carrying is really the prototype of all other types of Sabbath work. As
mentioned earlier, the definition of such work is any act where man
demonstrates his mastery over nature. But the first act by which man
demonstrates such mastery is by taking things from nature and carrying
them where he needs them. This was the deed of the man gathering wood.
Therefore, if we are to relinquish our mastery over nature, the first
requirement is that we not carry anything away.

In a sense, by not carrying, we also relinquish our ownership of
everything in the world. A main sign of ownership is that one may take
something wherever he pleases. On the Sabbath, we give up something of
this ownership. Nothing may be removed from the house. When a man leaves
his house, he may carry nothing but the clothing on his back. It is G-d,
not man, who owns all things.

This category absolutely forbids all carrying in the street. Even such
trivial things as a key or a handkerchief must be left at home.
Certainly pocketbooks, purses, wallets and key chains may not be
carried. The only thing one may carry outdoors are things that are
actually worn.

We can get some idea how serious carrying on the Sabbath is from the
following law. When Rosh Hashanah falls on the Sabbath, the Shofar
(ram’s horn) is not sounded. This was legislated by the Sanhedrin for a
most interesting reason. Suppose that a synagogue has only one Shofar,
and it became lost or damaged. Imagine the embarrassment and breach of
ceremony involved in not being able to sound the Shofar on this most
solemn day of Rosh Hashanah. How great the temptation to carry a
replacement Shofar from another synagogue or from someone’s home! But
this would involve a gross violation of the Sabbath. To avoid this
problem the Sanhedrin decreed that the Shofar never be sounded on the
Sabbath at all.

Carrying in a private home is permitted on the Sabbath. It is only in a
public domain that it is forbidden. When a semipublic domain is involved
the Rabbis prohibited carrying to it from a public domain and vice-versa
without an Eruv.

The spirit of the law, however, forbids the carrying or handling of
unnecessary objects, even indoors. The Sanhedrin therefore legislated
the categories of Muktza, things which may not be handled on the
Sabbath. These include such useless things as pebbles and stones. They
also include things which may not be used on the Sabbath, such as
pencils, candles and money.

The spirit of the law also forbids the transfer of ownership, even
inside a building. The Sanhedrin legislated a prohibition against all
forms of buying, selling, trading and other commerce for a variety of
reasons. The Sabbath must be a day when all business stops.

It is interesting to note that the prohibition against commerce is one
of the few types of legislation actually recorded in the Bible. Thus, we
find (Nehemiah 10:32), “If the (non-Jewish) natives of the land bring
any goods or food to sell on the Sabbath day, we will buy nothing from
them on the Sabbath or on any holy day.”

2. Burning
----------

This involves making a fire or causing anything to bum.

Even throwing a toothpick into a fire is considered a violation of the
Sabbath under this category.

This is another category of work mentioned specifically in the Torah, as
we find (Ex. 35:3), “You shall not light a fire at home on the Sabbath
day.”

The use of fire is one of the prime ways in which man demonstrates his
mastery over nature. Indeed, the use of fire is one of the cornerstones
of human civilization. It is fire that allows man to extract energy, his
most basic requirement, from nature. Thus, in a sense, it is also a
prototype of Sabbath work.

Obviously, this category forbids such acts as striking a match or
turning on a stove.

It also prohibits smoking on the Sabbath.

An automobile engine works by burning gasoline. Turning on the ignition
and stepping on the accelerator causes it to burn. It is therefore
forbidden to drive a car on the Sabbath.

Heating a piece of metal so that it glows is also in the category of
burning. When an electric light is turned on, its filament is heated
white hot, producing light. This is therefore forbidden on the Sabbath.

In general, any use of electricity violates the spirit of the Sabbath,
since it involves extracting energy from nature. According to many
authorities, electricity has the same status as fire with regard to the
Sabbath. In any case, the practice of all observant Jews is to avoid
turning any electrical appliance on or off. Since a telephone also works
by electricity, it also should not be used.

3. Extinguishing
----------------

This includes extinguishing or lowering a flame in any way.

As such, it is the opposite of burning.

Thus, for example, one may not turn down the gas on Shabbos. Similarly,
it is forbidden to turn off the lights or any other electrical
appliance.

The Sabbath, however, may be violated wherever there is any possible
danger to human life. Therefore, in case of fire, anything necessary
must be done where life may be endangered.

4. Finishing
------------

This includes completing any useful article, even where no other
category of work is involved.

It includes all forms of repairs and adjustments.

For example, putting together a machine is in this category, even when
no other type of work is done.

It is similarly forbidden to put together any other article, unless it
is made to come apart.

Smoothing a stone and planing wood is also in this category. It
therefore precludes all forms of sculpture and shop work. Sharpening a
knife is also in this category.

This heading also forbids us to cut or tear paper in any way. To take a
very mundane example, one may not tear toilet paper on the Sabbath.
Religious Jews therefore only use pre-cut paper.

Putting the finishing touch on any article is also in this category.
Thus, for example, one may not put new laces into shoes.

Any form of adjustment comes under this heading. Thus, one may not wind
a clock or set a watch.

It is similarly forbidden to tune any kind of musical instrument.. The
Rabbis forbade the use of all musical instruments on the Sabbath.

Blowing up a balloon or water wings also comes under this category.

The same is true of setting the sails on a boat. For this reason, the
Sanhedrin forbade the riding of small boats on the Sabbath. (One may,
however, ride a large ship piloted by non-Jews, as long as he does not
embark or disembark on the Sabbath.) There is a special rabbinic
enactment that swimming is not permitted on the Sabbath.

5. Writing
----------

This includes all forms of writing and drawing.

Typing, printing, and using a rubber stamp all come under this heading.

The main objective of writing is the keeping of records, and therefore,
the spirit of the law forbids any activity normally requiring a written
record. Thus, the Sanhedrin forbade all sorts of business activity, as
well as marriage and divorce on the Sabbath.

Calculations and measurements are also included, since they also
normally involve writing.

Gambling and playing games of chance also are included in this category.

6. Erasing
----------

This includes erasing or destroying any form of writing.

Breaking apart or tearing through words or letters also is included in
the spirit of this category.

Although it is permitted to tear a package to get the food inside, this
should be avoided when it involves tearing through the writing on the
package.

Likewise, when words are stamped on the edge of a book (as is the case
with most library books), these letters are separated when the book is
opened, and this should not be done unless the book is urgently needed.

7. Cooking
----------

This includes all forms of cooking and baking.

Even boiling water falls under this category.

It also includes any form of heat treatment of non-foods.

Thus, melting metal or wax and firing ceramics are all included.

The prohibition against cooking does not prevent us from eating hot food
on the Sabbath. Indeed, part of our Sabbath joy (Oneg Shabbos) consists
of eating hot food. However, this must be prepared in such a manner that
no act of cooking actually takes place on the Sabbath.

In order to prevent one from forgetting and adjusting the flame, the
stove must be covered with a tin or blech. This must also cover the
controls, making it impossible to adjust the flame. Hot cooked food may
then be kept on this tin.

Under some conditions, it is also permitted to rewarm food that is
already cooked. These laws appear very complex when put in writing,
while being very simple in actual practice. The best thing is to see how
a true Sabbath observer prepares hot food for Shabbos.

8. Washing
----------

This includes washing or bleaching a garment in any manner.

It also includes removing any spot or stain from clothing.

Wringing out a wet garment also falls under this heading.

9. Sewing
---------

This includes all forms of sewing and needlework.

Pasting, taping and stapling paper are also included. Thus, one may not
seal an envelope nor attach a postage stamp on the Sabbath.

Fastening something with a safety pin, however, is permitted, since this
is only a temporary fastening.

10. Tearing
-----------

This includes undoing any form of sewing.

It also includes tearing a garment.

Separating glued papers falls under this heading.

11. Knotting
------------

This includes tying any permanent knot.

Tying a bow, however, is permitted. Therefore, for example, one may tie
shoes on the Sabbath.

12. Untying
-----------

This includes untying any permanent knot.

If a knot is not made to be permanent, however, it may be untied. This
is true even if it is a permanent type knot. Thus, for example, if one’s
shoes accidentally become knotted, they may be untied.

13. Shaping
-----------

This includes cutting any object to a desired shape.

Cutting material for a dress would fall under this category. So would
cutting out pictures or newspaper articles.

Working wood or metal on a lathe or mill also falls under this heading.

Foods are not included in this category, and may be cut to be served.

14. Plowing
-----------

This includes any work that improves the ground.

Digging up a garden and fertilizing it fall under this heading. Also
included is raking a lawn.

15. Planting
------------

This includes all forms of planting and gardening.

Also included is anything that encourages plants to grow. Thus, one may
not water plants on the Sabbath.

It is likewise forbidden to place cut flowers in water, or even to
change their water.

16. Reaping
-----------

This includes cutting or plucking any growing thing.

Agriculture is again one of the main ways in which man shows his
dominance over nature. This category is therefore also one of those
mentioned in the Torah, as we find (Ex. 34:21), “Six days shall you
work, but you shall rest on the seventh; in plowing and in harvesting,
you shall rest.”

Such activities as plucking a flower and plucking a fruit from a tree
come under this heading. The same is true of mowing a lawn.

It was also legislated that we do not handle any growing flowers or
plants. It is also forbidden to climb a tree or smell a growing flower.

Fruit which falls from a tree on the Sabbath may not be used on the same
day.

The use of animals as well as plants is forbidden since there is the
concern that one might forget and inadvertently pluck a branch for use
as a switch.

17. Harvesting
--------------

This includes all harvesting operations such as binding grain into
sheaves or bales.

Gathering fallen fruit into piles, or placing them into baskets also
falls under this heading. This is even true in a private enclosed yard
where carrying is permitted.

18. Threshing
-------------

This includes all operations where food is separated from its natural
container.

Both solid and liquid foods are included.

The prime example is threshing grain to remove it from its husk.

Squeezing a fruit for its juice is also included. The same is true of
milking a cow.

19. Winnowing
-------------

This includes all activities where food is separated from its inedible
portions by means of the wind.

The prime example is winnowing grain, where it is thrown up in the air,
allowing the chaff to blow away.

20. Selecting
-------------

This includes separating unwanted portions of food by hand.

Thus, for example, if one is eating berries, he may not pick out the bad
ones before eating the good ones.

One may, however, eat the good ones and leave the bad., It is likewise
permitted to peel fruits and vegetables for immediate consumption.

This category also forbids one to pick the bones out of fish. This is
one reason for the custom of eating Gefilte Fish on Shabbos, since its
bones are already removed.

If one must remove something inedible, a small amount of food should be
removed along with it.

The spirit of this category also forbids all sorts of sorting and filing
activities.

21. Sifting
-----------

This includes separating the unwanted portions from food by means of a
sieve.

It includes the sifting of flour and the straining of liquids.

22. Grinding
------------

This includes all grinding and milling operations. The prime example is
milling grain.

Grinding coffee or pepper, filing metals, and crushing substances in a
mortar, all fall under this heading.

Its spirit also forbids the grating of cheeses and vegetables and the
grinding of fish and meat, as well as herbs used for medicine.

The Sanhedrin therefore legislated to forbid the use of all nonvital
medicines and treatments except for a sick person.

An initial exception, however, was made in cases of acute pain and
actual illness, where necessary medical treatments may be used.

Where life is actually in danger, the Sabbath may be violated in any
necessary manner. Our sages teach us that it is better to violate one
Sabbath in order that another may live to keep many.

23. Kneading
------------

This includes combining a powder with a liquid to form a dough or paste.

The primary example is making a dough or batter for bread or cake.

Also included would be making instant puddings, even where no cooking is
required.

24. Combing
-----------

This includes combing wool or cotton in preparation for making it into
thread.

25. Spinning
------------

This includes all threadmaking and rope-making activities.

Making felt is also included.

26. Dyeing
----------

This includes changing the color of any object or substance.

Dyeing clothing, painting, and mixing paints and dyes all come under the
heading.

The spirit of this law also prohibits the use of lipstick and eye
shadow. However, there are permanent cosmetics that can be put on before
the Sabbath and last the entire day.

27. Chainstitching
------------------

This includes all crocheting, knitting, and braiding activities.

Also included are basket weaving and net making.

The prime example involved setting up a loom for weaving. A chain of
threads was looped across the loom to hold the warp.

28. Warping
-----------

This includes setting up the warp on a loom, even when no actual weaving
is done.

29. Weaving
-----------

This includes all weaving operations.

Also included are all sorts of needlework, such as embroidery,
needlepoint, and rug hooking.

30. Unraveling
--------------

This includes unraveling any woven or knitted material.

31. Building
------------

This includes all building and assembling activities.

All building repairs come under this heading, even driving a nail into a
wall.

Also included is pitching any kind of tent.

The spirit of the law even forbids the opening of an umbrella (even when
it will not be carried outside), since it affords the same protection
from the elements as a tent.

32. Demolishing
---------------

This includes undoing any building operation.

Thus, for example, even a temporary tent may not be taken down on the
Sabbath.

Taking apart any kind of machinery is also included.

33. Trapping
------------

This includes capturing or restricting the freedom of any living
creature.

The prime example is trapping an animal. However even catching an insect
in one’s hand comes under this heading.

34. Shearing
------------

This includes removing hair, wool or feathers from any living creature.

Also included are such things as haircutting, shaving and cutting one’s
fingernails. Eyebrow plucking is also forbidden.

The spirit of the law also forbids the combing of hair on the Sabbath,
since this normally also pulls out hairs. Using a soft brush, however,
is permitted.

35. Slaughtering
----------------

This includes the killing of any living creature.

Swatting a fly or mosquito is also included, as is wounding or bruising
an animal or human being.

Deadly snakes and wasps, which pose a danger to human life, may be
killed on the Sabbath. This is another case where human life overrides
all other considerations.

36. Skinning
------------

This includes skinning any animal to obtain its hide

37. Tanning
-----------

This includes all tanning and softening processes used to make hides
into leather.

Also included is any process that softens or improves leather. Rubbing
oil or saddle soap into leather thus comes under this heading.

38. Smoothing
-------------

This includes all smoothing and polishing operations.

The prime example is the preparation of leather, where the hair is
removed and the surface rubbed smooth.

Shining shoes is also included under this heading.

The same is true of polishing silver or any other metal.

39. Marking
-----------

This includes marking or scoring lines on a surface in preparation for
cutting or writing.

It applies even when such marking does not come under the category of
writing.

