---
title: "Talmud, Tractate Shabbath"
pdf: "talmud_tractateshabbath.pdf"
description: "the portion of the Talmud dealing with Sabbath categories of work. (Order Moed, Tractate Shabbath, Chapter 7)"
template: lesson.jade
---


**Talmud: Shabbath 73a to 75b 8**

**Talmud - Mas. Shabbath 73a**

Surely then the first clause [dealing with the greater severity of the
Sabbath] refers to idolatry, whilst the second treats of other precepts;
and how is unwitting and unintentional transgression possible? When one
thought that it [heleb] was permitted fat, and ate it.
<sup>**[<sup>1</sup>](#sdfootnote1sym)**</sup> [While] ‘this is not so
with respect to the Sabbath,’ viz., that he is not culpable, for if [by
analogy] one intended cutting something detached but cut something
attached [instead], he is not culpable.
<sup>**[<sup>2</sup>](#sdfootnote2sym)**</sup> But Abaye [maintains:]
how is an unwitting and unintentional offence meant? When one thinks
that it [heleb] is spittle and swallows it.
<sup>**[<sup>3</sup>](#sdfootnote3sym)**</sup> [While] ‘which is not so
in the case of the Sabbath,’ where he is exempt, for if [by analogy] one
intends lifting something detached but cuts something attached [to the
soil], he is not culpable. But if he intends to cut something detached
and cuts something attached, he is liable.

It was stated: If one intends to throw [an object] two [cubits], but
throws it four, <sup>**[<sup>4</sup>](#sdfootnote4sym)**</sup> Raba
said: He is not culpable; Abaye ruled: He is culpable. Raba said: He is
not culpable, since he had no intention of a four [cubits’] throw. Abaye
ruled, He is culpable, since he intended throwing in general. If he
thinks it private ground but it is learnt to be public ground, Raba
ruled: He is not culpable; Abaye said: He is culpable. Raba ruled, He is
not culpable, since he had no intention of a forbidden throw. While
Abaye ruled that he is culpable, since he intended throwing in general.

Now, it is necessary. <sup>**[<sup>5</sup>](#sdfootnote5sym)**</sup> For
if we were informed of the first, [it might be argued] there [only] does
Raba rule thus, since he did not intend [to perform] a forbidden eating,
but if he intended throwing [an object] two [cubits] but throws it four,
since four cannot be thrown without two,
<sup>**[<sup>6</sup>](#sdfootnote6sym)**</sup> I would say that he
agrees with Abaye. And if we were informed of this, [it might be argued]
here [only] does Raba rule thus, since he did not intend a four
[cubits’] throw; but if he thought it private ground but it was
discovered to be public ground, seeing that he intended a four [cubits’]
throw, I would say that he agrees with Abaye. Thus they are [all]
necessary.

We learnt: The primary labours are forty less one. Now we questioned
this, Why state the number? And R. Johanan answered: [To teach] that if
one performs all of them in one state of unawareness, he is liable [to a
sacrifice] on account of each separately. Now, as for Abaye who ruled
that in such a case one is liable, this is well: for this is conceivable
where one knows the interdict of the Sabbath and the interdicts of
labours, but errs in respect of the standards.
<sup>**[<sup>7</sup>](#sdfootnote7sym)**</sup> But according to Raba who
maintained that one is not culpable [for this], how is this conceivable?
[Presumably] [only] where he was conscious of the Sabbath but unaware of
[the forbidden character of his] labors. Now that is well if he agrees
with R. Johanan who ruled, Since he was ignorant of kareth, even if he
was conscious of the negative injunction, [he is liable]:
<sup>**[<sup>8</sup>](#sdfootnote8sym)**</sup> then it is possible where
he knew [that his labors are prohibited on] Sabbath by a negative
injunction. But if he holds with R. Simeon b. Lakish, who maintained, He
must offend unwittingly in respect of both the negative injunction and
kareth, then wherein did he know of the Sabbath? — He knew it by the law
of boundaries, this being in accordance with R. Akiba.

**MISHNAH**. The primary labors are forty less one, [viz.:] sowing,
plowing, reaping, binding sheaves, threshing, winnowing, selecting,
<sup>**[<sup>9</sup>](#sdfootnote9sym)**</sup> grinding, sifting,
kneading, baking, shearing wool, bleaching, hackling, dyeing, spinning,
stretching the threads, <sup>**[<sup>10</sup>](#sdfootnote10sym)**</sup>
the making of two meshes, weaving two threads, dividing two threads,
<sup>**[<sup>11</sup>](#sdfootnote11sym)**</sup> tying [knotting] and
untying, sewing two stitches, tearing in order to sew two stitches,
<sup>**[<sup>12</sup>](#sdfootnote12sym)**</sup> capturing a deer,
slaughtering, or flaying, or salting it,
<sup>**[<sup>13</sup>](#sdfootnote13sym)**</sup> curing its hide,
scraping it [of its hair], cutting it up, writing two letters, erasing
in order to write two letters [over the erasure], building, pulling
down, extinguishing, kindling, striking with a hammer,
<sup>**[<sup>14</sup>](#sdfootnote14sym)**</sup> [and] carrying out from
one domain to another: these are the forty primary labors less one.

**Talmud - Mas. Shabbath 73b**

GEMARA. Why state the number? — Said R. Johanan: [To teach] that if one
performs them all in one state of unawareness, he is liable on account
of each separately.

SOWING AND PLOUGHING. Let us see: plowing is done first, then let him
[the Tanna] state PLOUGHING first and then SOWING? — The Tanna treats of
<sup>**[<sup>15</sup>](#sdfootnote15sym)**</sup> Palestine, where they
first sow and then plough.
<sup>**[<sup>16</sup>](#sdfootnote16sym)**</sup>

A Tanna taught: Sowing, pruning, planting, bending,
<sup>**[<sup>17</sup>](#sdfootnote17sym)**</sup> and grafting are all
one labor. What does this inform us? — This: that if one performs many
labors of the same nature, he is liable only to one [sacrifice]. R. Abba
<sup>**[<sup>18</sup>](#sdfootnote18sym)**</sup> said in the name of R.
Hiyya b. Ashi in R. Ammi’s name: He who prunes is culpable on account of
planting, while he who plants, bends [the vine], or grafts is culpable
on account of sowing. On account of sowing only but not on account of
planting? <sup>**[<sup>19</sup>](#sdfootnote19sym)**</sup> — Say: on
account of planting too.
<sup>**[<sup>20</sup>](#sdfootnote20sym)**</sup>

R. Kahana said: If one prunes and needs the wood [too], he is liable to
two [penalties], <sup>**[<sup>21</sup>](#sdfootnote21sym)**</sup> one on
account of reaping <sup>**[<sup>22</sup>](#sdfootnote22sym)**</sup> and
one on account of planting.
<sup>**[<sup>23</sup>](#sdfootnote23sym)**</sup> R. Joseph said: He who
cuts hay is liable to two [penalties], one on account of reaping and the
other on account of planting.
<sup>**[<sup>24</sup>](#sdfootnote24sym)**</sup> Abaye said: He who
trims beets [in the ground] is liable to two [penalties], one on account
of reaping <sup>**[<sup>25</sup>](#sdfootnote25sym)**</sup> and one on
account of planting.

PLOUGHING. A Tanna taught: Plowing, digging, and trenching are a]l one
[form of] work. <sup>**[<sup>26</sup>](#sdfootnote26sym)**</sup> R.
Shesheth said: If one has a mound [of earth] and removes it, in the
house, he is liable on the score of building;
<sup>**[<sup>27</sup>](#sdfootnote27sym)**</sup> if in the field, he is
liable on the score of plowing. Raba said: If one has a depression and
fills it up: if in the house, he is liable on account of building; if in
the field, he is liable on account of ploughing.
<sup>**[<sup>28</sup>](#sdfootnote28sym)**</sup>

R. Abba said: If one digs a pit on the Sabbath, needing only the earth
thereof, <sup>**[<sup>29</sup>](#sdfootnote29sym)**</sup> he is not
culpable on its account. And even according to R. Judah, who ruled: One
is liable on account of a labor which is not required on its own
account: that is only when he effects an improvement, but this man
causes damage. <sup>**[<sup>30</sup>](#sdfootnote30sym)**</sup>

REAPING: A Tanna taught: Reaping, vintaging, gathering [dates],
collecting [olives], and gathering [figs] are all one [form of] labor.
R. Papa said: He who throws a clod of earth at a palm tree and dislodges
dates is liable to two [penalties], one on account of detaching
<sup>**[<sup>31</sup>](#sdfootnote31sym)**</sup> and one on account of
stripping. <sup>**[<sup>32</sup>](#sdfootnote32sym)**</sup> R. Ashi
said: This is not the mode of detaching, nor is it the mode of
stripping. <sup>**[<sup>33</sup>](#sdfootnote33sym)**</sup>

BINDING SHEAVES. Raba <sup>**[<sup>34</sup>](#sdfootnote34sym)**</sup>
said: He who collects salt out of a salina
<sup>**[<sup>35</sup>](#sdfootnote35sym)**</sup> is liable on the score
of binding sheaves. <sup>**[<sup>36</sup>](#sdfootnote36sym)**</sup>
Abaye said: Binding sheaves applies only to products of the soil.

THRESHING. It was taught: Threshing, beating [flax in their stalks], and
beating [cotton] are all the same form of work.

WINNOWING, SELECTING, GRINDING AND SIFTING. But winnowing, selecting,
and sifting are identical?
<sup>**[<sup>37</sup>](#sdfootnote37sym)**</sup> — Abaye and Raba both
said: Whatever was performed in [connection with the erection of] the
Tabernacle,

**Talmud - Mas. Shabbath 74a**

even if there are [labors] similar thereto, is counted [separately].
<sup>**[<sup>38</sup>](#sdfootnote38sym)**</sup> Then let him also
enumerate pounding [wheat]?
<sup>**[<sup>39</sup>](#sdfootnote39sym)**</sup> — Said Abaye: Because a
poor man eats his bread without pounding.
<sup>**[<sup>40</sup>](#sdfootnote40sym)**</sup> Raba said: This agrees
with Rabbi, who said: The primary labors are forty less one; but if
pounding were enumerated, there would be forty.
<sup>**[<sup>41</sup>](#sdfootnote41sym)**</sup> Then let one of these
be omitted and pounding be inserted? Hence it is clear [that it must be
explained] as Abaye [does].

Our Rabbis taught: If various kinds of food lie before one, he may
select and eat, select and put aside; but he must not select, and if he
does, he incurs a sin-offering. What does this mean? — Said ‘Ulla, This
is its meaning: He may select to eat on the same day, and he may select
and put aside for the same day; but he must not select for [use on] the
morrow, and if he does, he incurs a sin-offering. R. Hisda demurred: Is
it then permitted to bake for [use on] the same day, or is it permitted
to cook for the same day?
<sup>**[<sup>42</sup>](#sdfootnote42sym)**</sup> Rather said R. Hisda:
He may select and eat less than the standard quantity, and he may select
and put aside less than the standard quantity;
<sup>**[<sup>43</sup>](#sdfootnote43sym)**</sup> but he must not select
as much as the standard quantity, and if he does, he incurs a
sin-offering. R. Joseph demurred : Is it then permitted to bake less
than the standard quantity?
<sup>**[<sup>44</sup>](#sdfootnote44sym)**</sup> Rather said R. Joseph:
He may select by hand and eat, or select by hand and put aside; but he
may not select with a reed-basket or a dish; and if he does, he is not
culpable, nevertheless it is forbidden.
<sup>**[<sup>45</sup>](#sdfootnote45sym)**</sup> He may not select with
a sieve or a basket-sieve, and if he does he incurs a sin-offering.
<sup>**[<sup>46</sup>](#sdfootnote46sym)**</sup> R. Hamnuna demurred:
Are then a reed-basket and a dish mentioned? — Rather said R. Hamnuna:
He may select and eat, [taking the] eatable from the non-eatable, and he
may select and put aside, [taking] the eatable from the non-eatable. But
he must not select the non-eatable out of the eatable, and if he does,
he incurs a sin-offering.
<sup>**[<sup>47</sup>](#sdfootnote47sym)**</sup> Abaye demurred : Is it
then taught, ‘the eatable from the non-eatable’? Rather said Abaye: He
may select and eat immediately, and he may select and put aside for
immediate use; <sup>**[<sup>48</sup>](#sdfootnote48sym)**</sup> but he
may not select for [later consumption on] the same day, and if he does,
it is regarded as though he were selecting for [making] a store, and he
incurs a sin-offering. <sup>**[<sup>49</sup>](#sdfootnote49sym)**</sup>
The Rabbis reported this to Raba. Said he to them, Nahmani
<sup>**[<sup>50</sup>](#sdfootnote50sym)**</sup> has said well.

If two kinds of food lie before a person, and he selects and eats or
selects and puts aside, <sup>**[<sup>51</sup>](#sdfootnote51sym)**</sup>
— R. Ashi learnt: He is not culpable: R. Jeremiah of Difti learnt: He is
culpable, ‘R. Ashi learnt: He is not culpable’! but it was taught: ‘He
is culpable’? — There is no difficulty: the one treats of a reed-basket
and a plate; <sup>**[<sup>52</sup>](#sdfootnote52sym)**</sup> the other
refers to a sieve and a basket-sieve.

When R. Dimi came, he related: It was R. Bibi’s Sabbath,
<sup>**[<sup>53</sup>](#sdfootnote53sym)**</sup> and R. Ammi and R. Assi
chanced to be there. He cast a basket of fruit before them,
<sup>**[<sup>54</sup>](#sdfootnote54sym)**</sup> and I do not know
whether it was because he held that it is forbidden to pick out the
eatable from the noneatable, or whether he wished to be generous.
<sup>**[<sup>55</sup>](#sdfootnote55sym)**</sup>

Hezekiah said: One who picks lupines [after boiling] out of their husks
<sup>**[<sup>56</sup>](#sdfootnote56sym)**</sup> is culpable. Shall we
say that Hezekiah holds that it is forbidden to select the eatable from
the non-eatable? [No.] Lupines are different,

**Talmud - Mas. Shabbath 74b**

because they are boiled seven times, and if one does not remove it [the
edible portion], it goes rancid, hence it is like [picking] the
non-edible out of the edible.
<sup>**[<sup>57</sup>](#sdfootnote57sym)**</sup>

GRINDING. R. Papa said: He who cuts up beets very fine is liable on
account of grinding. R. Manasseh said: He who cuts chips [for fuel] is
liable on account of grinding. Said R. Ashi: If he is particular about
their size, he is liable on account of cutting.
<sup>**[<sup>58</sup>](#sdfootnote58sym)**</sup>

KNEADING AND BAKING. R. Papa said: Our Tanna omits the boiling of
ingredients [for dyes], <sup>**[<sup>59</sup>](#sdfootnote59sym)**</sup>
which took place in [connection with] the Tabernacle, and treats of
baking! <sup>**[<sup>60</sup>](#sdfootnote60sym)**</sup> - Our Tanna
takes the order of [making] bread.
<sup>**[<sup>61</sup>](#sdfootnote61sym)**</sup>

R. Aha son of R. Awira said: He who throws a tent peg into a stove
<sup>**[<sup>62</sup>](#sdfootnote62sym)**</sup> is liable on account of
cooking. But that is obvious? — You might say, His intention is to
strengthen [harden] the article,
<sup>**[<sup>63</sup>](#sdfootnote63sym)**</sup> therefore we are
informed that it [first] softens and then hardens.
<sup>**[<sup>64</sup>](#sdfootnote64sym)**</sup>

Rabbah son of R. Huna said: He who boils pitch is liable on account of
cooking. But that is obvious? — You might argue, Since it hardens again,
I might say [that he is] not [liable]. Hence he informs us [otherwise].

Raba said: He who makes an [earthenware] barrel is culpable on account
of seven sin-offerings. <sup>**[<sup>65</sup>](#sdfootnote65sym)**</sup>
[He who makes] an oven is liable on account of eight sin-offerings.
<sup>**[<sup>66</sup>](#sdfootnote66sym)**</sup> Abaye said: He who
makes a wicker work is liable to eleven sin-offerings,
<sup>**[<sup>67</sup>](#sdfootnote67sym)**</sup> and if he sews round
the mouth thereof, he is liable to thirteen sin-offerings.
<sup>**[<sup>68</sup>](#sdfootnote68sym)**</sup>

SHEARING WOOL AND BLEACHING. Rabbah b. Bar Hanah said in R. Johanan’s
name: He who spins wool from off the animal’s back on the Sabbath incurs
three sin-offerings, one on account of shearing, another on account of
hackling, and the third on account of spinning.
<sup>**[<sup>69</sup>](#sdfootnote69sym)**</sup> R. Kahana said: Neither
shearing, hackling, nor spinning is [done] in this manner. But is it not
so? Surely it was taught in the name of R. Nehemiah: It was washed
[direct] on the goats and spun on the goats:
<sup>**[<sup>70</sup>](#sdfootnote70sym)**</sup> which proves that
spinning direct from the animal is designated spinning? — Superior skill
is different. <sup>**[<sup>71</sup>](#sdfootnote71sym)**</sup>

Our Rabbis taught: He who plucks the wing [of a bird], trims it [the
feather], and plucks it [the down], is liable to three sin offerings.
Said R. Simeon b. Lakish: For plucking [the wing] one is liable on
account of shearing; for trimming [the feather] he is liable on the
score of cutting; and for plucking [the down] he is liable under the
head of smoothing.

TYING AND UNTYING. Where was there tying in the Tabernacle? — Said Raba:
The tent-pegs were tied. But that was tying with the intention of
[subsequent] untying? <sup>**[<sup>72</sup>](#sdfootnote72sym)**</sup>
But said Abaye: The weavers of the curtains, when a thread broke, tied
it up. Said Raba to him: You have explained tying; but what can be said
about untying? And should you answer that when two knots [in the
material] chanced to come together, one untied one and left the other
knotted: <sup>**[<sup>73</sup>](#sdfootnote73sym)**</sup> [it may be
asked], seeing that one would not do thus before a king of flesh and
blood, how much more so before the Supreme King of kings, the Holy One,
blessed be He? <sup>**[<sup>74</sup>](#sdfootnote74sym)**</sup> Rather
said Raba — others state, R. Elai: Those who caught the hillazon
<sup>**[<sup>75</sup>](#sdfootnote75sym)**</sup> tied and untied.
<sup>**[<sup>76</sup>](#sdfootnote76sym)**</sup>

SEWING TWO STITCHES. But it cannot endure?
<sup>**[<sup>77</sup>](#sdfootnote77sym)**</sup> — Said Rabbah b. Bar
Hanah in R. Johanan’s name: Providing that he knots them.
<sup>**[<sup>78</sup>](#sdfootnote78sym)**</sup>

TEARING IN ORDER TO SEW TWO STITCHES. Was there any tearing in the
Tabernacle? — Rabbah and R. Zera both say:

**Talmud - Mas. Shabbath 75a**

A curtain which was attacked by a moth was torn [round the moth hole]
and resewn.

R. Zutra b. Tobiah said in Rab’s name: He who pulls the thread of a seam
<sup>**[<sup>79</sup>](#sdfootnote79sym)**</sup> on the Sabbath is
liable to a sin-offering; and he who learns a single thing from a Magian
<sup>**[<sup>80</sup>](#sdfootnote80sym)**</sup> is worthy of death;
<sup>**[<sup>81</sup>](#sdfootnote81sym)**</sup> and he who is able to
calculate the cycles <sup>**[<sup>82</sup>](#sdfootnote82sym)**</sup>
and planetary courses but does not, one may hold no conversation with
him. <sup>**[<sup>83</sup>](#sdfootnote83sym)**</sup>

As to magianism, Rab and Samuel [differ thereon]: one maintains that it
is sorcery; the other, blasphemy. It may be proved that it is Rab who
maintains that it is blasphemy. For R. Zutra b. Tobiah said in Rab’s
name: He who learns a single thing from a magian is worthy of death. Now
should you think that it is a sorcerer, surely it is written, thou shalt
not learn to do [after the abomination of those nations],
<sup>**[<sup>84</sup>](#sdfootnote84sym)**</sup> [implying], but you may
learn in order to understand and instruct! This proves it. R. Simeon b.
Pazzi said in the name of R. Joshua b. Levi on the authority of Bar
Kappara: He who knows how to calculate the cycles and planetary courses,
but does not, of him Scripture saith, but they regard not the work of
the Lord, neither have they considered the operation of his hands.
<sup>**[<sup>85</sup>](#sdfootnote85sym)**</sup> R. Samuel b. Nahmani
said in R. Johanan’s name: How do we know that it is one’s duty to
calculate the cycles and planetary courses? Because it is written, for
this is your wisdom and understanding in the sight of the peoples:
<sup>**[<sup>86</sup>](#sdfootnote86sym)**</sup> what wisdom and
understanding is in the sight of the peoples?
<sup>**[<sup>87</sup>](#sdfootnote87sym)**</sup> Say, that it is the
science of cycles and planets.

CAPTURING A DEER, etc. Our Rabbis taught: He who captures a purple-fish
<sup>**[<sup>88</sup>](#sdfootnote88sym)**</sup> and crushes it is
liable to one [sin-offering];
<sup>**[<sup>89</sup>](#sdfootnote89sym)**</sup> R. Judah said: He is
liable to two, for R. Judah maintained: Crushing comes under the head of
threshing. Said they to him: Crushing does not come under the head of
threshing. Raba observed: What is the Rabbis’ reason? They hold that
threshing is applicable only to produce from the soil. But let him be
culpable too on the score of taking life? — Said R. Johanan: This means
that he crushed it when [already] dead.
<sup>**[<sup>90</sup>](#sdfootnote90sym)**</sup> Raba said: You may even
explain that he crushed it whilst alive: in respect to the taking of
life he is but incidentally occupied.
<sup>**[<sup>91</sup>](#sdfootnote91sym)**</sup> But Abaye and Raba both
maintain: R. Simeon admits in a case of ‘cut off his head but let him
not die!’ <sup>**[<sup>92</sup>](#sdfootnote92sym)**</sup> Here it is
different, because he is more pleased that it should be alive, so that
the dye should be clearer.
<sup>**[<sup>93</sup>](#sdfootnote93sym)**</sup>

AND SLAUGHTERING IT. As for him who slaughters, on what score is he
culpable? — Rab said: On the score of dyeing;
<sup>**[<sup>94</sup>](#sdfootnote94sym)**</sup> while Samuel said: On
the score of taking life.

**Talmud - Mas. Shabbath 75b**

On the score of dyeing but not on the score of taking life! Say, on the
score of dyeing too. Rab said: As to this dictum of mine, I will make an
observation thereon so that later generations should not come and deride
me. Wherein is one pleased with the dyeing? One is pleased that the
throat should be stained with blood, so that people may see it
<sup>**[<sup>95</sup>](#sdfootnote95sym)**</sup> and come and buy from
him.

SALTING AND CURING IT. But salting and tanning are identical?
<sup>**[<sup>96</sup>](#sdfootnote96sym)**</sup> — R. Johanan and Resh
Lakish both said: Omit one of these and insert the tracing of lines.
<sup>**[<sup>97</sup>](#sdfootnote97sym)**</sup> Rabbah son of R. Huna
said: He who salts meat is liable on account of tanning [dressing]. Raba
said: Curing does not apply to foodstuffs. R. Ashi observed: And even
Rabbah son of R. Huna ruled thus only when he requires it for a journey;
<sup>**[<sup>98</sup>](#sdfootnote98sym)**</sup> but [when he needs it]
for his house, one does not turn his food into wood.

SCRAPING AND CUTTING IT UP. R. Aha b. Hanina said: He who rubs [smoothes
skins] between columns <sup>**[<sup>99</sup>](#sdfootnote99sym)**</sup>
on the Sabbath is liable on the score of scraping. R. Hiyya b. Abba
said, R. Ammi told me three things in the name of R. Joshua b. Levi: He
who planes the tops of beams
<sup>**[<sup>100</sup>](#sdfootnote100sym)**</sup> on the Sabbath is
culpable on account of cutting.
<sup>**[<sup>101</sup>](#sdfootnote101sym)**</sup> He who spreads a
poultice [evenly over a sore] on the Sabbath is culpable on the grounds
of scraping. And he who chisels round a stone on the Sabbath
<sup>**[<sup>102</sup>](#sdfootnote102sym)**</sup> is liable on the
score of striking with the hammer. R. Simeon b. Bisna said in the name
of R. Simeon b. Lakish: He who describes a figure on a utensil, and he
who blows in glassware,
<sup>**[<sup>103</sup>](#sdfootnote103sym)**</sup> is liable on the
score of striking with a hammer. Rab Judah said: He who removes threads
<sup>**[<sup>104</sup>](#sdfootnote104sym)**</sup> from garments on the
Sabbath is liable on the score of striking with the hammer;
<sup>**[<sup>105</sup>](#sdfootnote105sym)**</sup> but that is only when
he objects to them. <sup>**[<sup>106</sup>](#sdfootnote106sym)**</sup>

WRITING TWO LETTERS. Our Rabbis taught: If one writes one large letter
in the place of which there is room for writing two, he is not culpable.
If he erases one large letter and there is room in its place for writing
two, he is culpable. Said R. Menahem son of R. Jose: And this is the
greater stringency of erasing over writing.

BUILDING, PULLING DOWN, EXTINGUISHING, KINDLING, AND STRIKING WITH A
HAMMER. Rabbah and R. Zera both say: Whatever comprises the finishing of
the work imposes liability on the score of striking with a hammer.

THESE ARE THE PRIMARY LABOURS. THESE is to reject R. Eleazar’s view, who
imposes liability on account of a derivative labor [when performed
concurrently] with a primary labour.
<sup>**[<sup>107</sup>](#sdfootnote107sym)**</sup>

LESS ONE. This is to reject R. Judah’s view. For it was taught: R. Judah
adds the closing up of the web and the beating of the woof.
<sup>**[<sup>108</sup>](#sdfootnote108sym)**</sup> Said they to him:
Closing up of the web is included in stretching the threads, and beating
[the woof] is included in weaving.

MISHNAH. THEY ALSO STATED ANOTHER GENERAL PRINCIPLE: WHATEVER IS FIT TO
PUT AWAY <sup>**[<sup>109</sup>](#sdfootnote109sym)**</sup> AND SUCH IS
[GENERALLY] PUT AWAY, <sup>**[<sup>110</sup>](#sdfootnote110sym)**</sup>
AND ONE CARRIES IT OUT ON THE SABBATH, HE IS LIABLE TO A SIN-OFFERING ON
ITS ACCOUNT. BUT WHATEVER IS NOT FIT TO PUT AWAY AND SUCH IS NOT
[GENERALLY] PUT AWAY, AND ONE CARRIES IT OUT ON THE SABBATH, ONLY HE
THAT PUT IT AWAY IS LIABLE.
<sup>**[<sup>111</sup>](#sdfootnote111sym)**</sup>

GEMARA. ‘WHATEVER IS FIT TO PUT AWAY’: What does this exclude? — R. Papa
said: It excludes the blood of menstruation. Mar ‘Ukba said: It excludes
the wood of an Asherah.
<sup>**[<sup>112</sup>](#sdfootnote112sym)**</sup> He who says the blood
of menstruation, certainly [excludes] the wood of an Asherah. But he who
says the wood of an Asherah; the blood of menstruation, however, is put
away for a cat. But the other [argues]: since she would sicken,
<sup>**[<sup>113</sup>](#sdfootnote113sym)**</sup> one would not put it
away [for that purpose].

R. Jose b. Hanina said: This does not agree with R. Simeon. For if it
were as R. Simeon, surely he maintained: All these standards were stated
only in respect of those who put away.
<sup>**[<sup>114</sup>](#sdfootnote114sym)**</sup>

AND THAT WHICH IS NOT FIT TO PUT AWAY.

[1](#sdfootnote1anc) Thus it was unwitting, because he thought it
permitted fat, and unintentional, since he had no intention of eating
heleb. On the present hypothesis it is regarded as unwitting but
intentional only when he knows that it is heleb and eats it as such,
thinking, however, that heleb is permitted.

[2](#sdfootnote2anc) Thus on this interpretation the Baraitha supports
Raba.

[3](#sdfootnote3anc) It is unwitting, because he thinks it spittle, and
unintentional, because he has no intention of eating at all, swallowing
not being eating. But the case posited by Raba is not unintentional in
Abaye’s view, since he did intend to eat.

[4](#sdfootnote4anc) Four cubits in the street is the minimum distance
for culpability.

[5](#sdfootnote5anc) For the three controversies — i.e., these two and
that on 72b top — to be stated, though apparently two are superfluous,
since the same principle underlies all.

[6](#sdfootnote6anc) I.e. , in throwing it four cubits he did fulfill
his intention.

[7](#sdfootnote7anc) In each case he intended performing less than the
standard for which liability is incurred, but actually performed the
full standard.

[8](#sdfootnote8anc) In each case he intended performing less than the
standard for which liability is incurred, but actually performed the
full standard.

[9](#sdfootnote9anc) By hand, the unfit food from the fit.

[10](#sdfootnote10anc) On the loom.

[11](#sdfootnote11anc) I.e., dividing the ends of the web.

[12](#sdfootnote12anc) Where it is inconvenient to sew unless one tears
the cloth first, that tearing is a primary labor.

[13](#sdfootnote13anc) Sc. its skin.

[14](#sdfootnote14anc) I.e., giving the finishing blow with the hammer.

[15](#sdfootnote15anc) Lit., ‘stands in’ — all the Tannaim, of course,
were Palestinians.

[16](#sdfootnote16anc) Involving only one liability if performed at the
same time.

[17](#sdfootnote17anc) Bending a vine for drawing it into the ground and
making it grow as an independent plant (Jast.).

[18](#sdfootnote18anc) So text as amended.

[19](#sdfootnote19anc) Surely bending and grafting are forms of
planting? — Planting and sowing are identical, the former applying to
trees and the latter to cereals.

[20](#sdfootnote20anc) Hence if he grafts and sows, he is only liable to
one penalty.

[21](#sdfootnote21anc) I.e., sin-offering, if done unwittingly.

[22](#sdfootnote22anc) Cutting wood from a tree for its use is a
derivative of reaping.

[23](#sdfootnote23anc) Pruning is done to enable what is left to grow
more freely, and thus it is a derivative of planting.

[24](#sdfootnote24anc) The hay is cut so that new grass can grow, and
thus it is a derivative of planting (i.e., sowing) too.

[25](#sdfootnote25anc) Because the beets he cuts constitute a harvest.

[26](#sdfootnote26anc) Involving only one liability if performed at the
same time.

[27](#sdfootnote27anc) For he thereby levels the floor, which is part of
building.

[28](#sdfootnote28anc) For he thereby prepares the ground for sowing.

[29](#sdfootnote29anc) But not the pit itself.

[30](#sdfootnote30anc) He spoils the ground by the pit.

[31](#sdfootnote31anc) That which is attached to the soil, the clod
being taken up from the soil.

[32](#sdfootnote32anc) Rashi: the tree of a burden, sc. the dates. Ri:
the dates of their outer skin. In both cases this is a derivative of
threshing, which separates the grain from the chaff.

[33](#sdfootnote33anc) Hence he is not liable on either score.

[34](#sdfootnote34anc) Maimonides and Asheri read: Rabbah.

[35](#sdfootnote35anc) A salt deposit, formed by causing sea water to
flow into a trench; the water evaporates through the heat of the sun,
leaving the salt. Raba refers to this action of directing the water into
the trench.

[36](#sdfootnote36anc) It partakes of the same nature, and ranks as a
derivative thereof.

[37](#sdfootnote37anc) All consist of separating fit from unfit food.

[38](#sdfootnote38anc) What constitutes primary labors is learnt from
the Tabernacle (v. 49b). All these labors were needed for the Tabernacle
in the wilderness; hence they are counted separately.

[39](#sdfootnote39anc) In a mortar, to remove the husk. Drugs were
pounded in connection with the Tabernacle for dyes

[40](#sdfootnote40anc) Hence it is omitted, for the Tanna evidently
follows the general order of making bread, and bread for the poor is
prepared with the husk of the wheat. But it is certainly a primary labor
forbidden on the Sabbath.

[41](#sdfootnote41anc) Rabbi deduces even the number of labors from
Scripture (v. infra 97b).

[42](#sdfootnote42anc) Surely not! And since you say that selecting for
use on the next day entails a sin-offering, it is a forbidden labor in
the full sense of the term, and hence prohibited even if required for
the same day.

[43](#sdfootnote43anc) For which a penalty is incurred, viz., as much as
a dried fig.

[44](#sdfootnote44anc) Granted that there is no penalty, it is
nevertheless forbidden, and the same applies here.

[45](#sdfootnote45anc) There is no liability, because this is not the
proper mode of selecting; nevertheless it is forbidden, because it is
somewhat similar to selecting by means of a sieve.

[46](#sdfootnote46anc) Because this is the usual mode of sifting, and it
is therefore a primary labor, as stated in the Mishnah.

[47](#sdfootnote47anc) The former is not the ordinary mode of sifting,
while the latter is.

[48](#sdfootnote48anc) I.e., immediately he finishes putting aside he
will consume what is eatable.

[49](#sdfootnote49anc) But the former does not constitute sifting and is
entirely permissible.

[50](#sdfootnote50anc) A familiar name of Abaye, because he was brought
up in the house of Rabbah b. Nahmani.

[51](#sdfootnote51anc) For another to eat. The two kinds were mixed up,
and he selected the kind he desired.

[52](#sdfootnote52anc) When the selecting is done by these, he is not
culpable.

[53](#sdfootnote53anc) It was his turn that Sabbath to wait on the
scholars.

[54](#sdfootnote54anc) tsa denotes to put down with some violence. He
did this instead of first separating the leaves from the fruit, as they
would fall away automatically through the force of his setting it down.

[55](#sdfootnote55anc) Hence placed a large quantity before them.

[56](#sdfootnote56anc) Lit., ‘refuse’.

[57](#sdfootnote57anc) Which is forbidden.

[58](#sdfootnote58anc) Sc. Hides to measure; v. Mishnah on erection.

[59](#sdfootnote59anc) E.g., for the hangings and curtains, v. Rashi 73a

[60](#sdfootnote60anc)   

[61](#sdfootnote61anc) I.e., he takes bread as an example and enumerates
the various principal labors connected with it.

[62](#sdfootnote62anc) To dry it.

[63](#sdfootnote63anc) Whereas cooking softens.

[64](#sdfootnote64anc) The fire heats the moisture in the wood, which
softens it, and it is only after it evaporates that the wood hardens.
This prior softening partakes of the nature of cooking.

[65](#sdfootnote65anc) So MS.M., deleting ‘on account of’ in cur. edd.
(i) The clods of earth are first crushed and powdered — this constitutes
grinding; (ii) the thicker balls which do not powder well are removed —
selecting (iii) it is then sifted; (iv) the powder is mixed with water —
kneading; (v) the resultant clay is smoothed when the cast of the vessel
is made — smoothing; (vi) the fire is lit in the kiln; and (vii) the
vessel is hardened in the kiln — boiling.

[66](#sdfootnote66anc) The seven foregoing, which are also needed here,
and an additional one. For after it is hardened in the kiln, a layer of
loam or plaster is daubed on the inside, to enable it to preserve heat.
This completes it, and it is stated infra 75b that every special act
needed to complete an article falls within the term ‘striking with the
hammer’ (v. Mishnah, 73a). But a barrel needs no special labor to
complete it.

[67](#sdfootnote67anc) It entails this number of labors: (i and ii)
cutting the reeds is a two-fold labor: (a) reaping, (b) planting, since
it leaves more room for the others to grow (v. supra 73b); (iii)
collecting them — binding sheaves, (iv) selecting the best; (v)
smoothing them; (vi) splitting them lengthwise into thinner rods —
grinding; (vii) cutting them — to measure; (viii) stretching the
lengthwise rods; (ix) drawing one cane through these, threading it above
and below the lengthwise rods — this is the equivalent of ‘the making of
two meshes’; (x) plaiting the canes — weaving; and finally (xi) cutting
it round after plaiting in order to finish it off, — ‘striking with a
hammer’ (v. n. 7).

[68](#sdfootnote68anc) The additional two are sewing and then tying up
(presumably the unattached lengths of the thread or twine used for
same).

[69](#sdfootnote69anc) Spinning direct from the animal embraces these
three labors.

[70](#sdfootnote70anc) The reference is to Ex. XXXV, 26, q.v., which R.
Nehemiah translates literally, without adding ‘hair’ as in E.V., and so
he deduces that it was spun directly from the animal.

[71](#sdfootnote71anc) Scripture emphasizes there the skill that this
demanded (v. 25), which shows that normal spinning is different.

[72](#sdfootnote72anc) When they struck camp. Such is not Biblically
forbidden and is not the tying referred to in the Mishnah.

[73](#sdfootnote73anc) The two knots together would spoil the evenness
of the fabric.

[74](#sdfootnote74anc) The untying of a knot in the fabric would leave
an ugly gap, particularly as the threads were six-stranded. Hence the
utmost care would be taken to prevent the thread from knotting in the
first place.

[75](#sdfootnote75anc) A kind of snail or purple-fish whose blood was
used for dyeing the tents of the Tabernacle.

[76](#sdfootnote76anc) The nets.

[77](#sdfootnote77anc) Two stitches alone will slip out of the cloth.
Thus the work is not permanent and entails no punishment.

[78](#sdfootnote78anc) After sewing, so that they will remain.

[79](#sdfootnote79anc) If the seam gapes, and he pulls the thread to
draw the pieces together. This constitutes sewing.

[80](#sdfootnote80anc) One of the priestcraft of Ancient Persia.

[81](#sdfootnote81anc) This is an idiom expressing strong abhorrence,
cf. similar expressions in Sanh. 58b and 59a. The Magi were hostile to
Jews, and caused them much suffering in various ways; cf. Sanh., Sonc.
ed., p. 504, n. 6 and 98a: Yeb. 63b; Git. 17a. This evoked the present
remark.

[82](#sdfootnote82anc) Sc. of the seasons.

[83](#sdfootnote83anc) The science of astronomy was necessary for the
fixing of the calendar, upon which Jewish Festivals depended. In early
times this was done by observation, but gradually calculation took its
place. Hence Rab’s indignation at one who fails to employ such
knowledge.

[84](#sdfootnote84anc) Deut. XVIII,9.

[85](#sdfootnote85anc) Isa. V, 12.

[86](#sdfootnote86anc) Deut. IV, 6.

[87](#sdfootnote87anc) I.e., which testifies to itself.

[88](#sdfootnote88anc) Hillazon, v. p. 356, n. 2

[89](#sdfootnote89anc) Crushing not being a culpable offence.

[90](#sdfootnote90anc) In order to make the blood exude.

[91](#sdfootnote91anc) I.e., the taking of life is not his main purpose,
but merely follows incidentally; such does not entail culpability.

[92](#sdfootnote92anc) R. Simeon holds that a labor performed
unintentionally in the course of doing something that is permitted is
itself permitted, unless it follows inevitably from the latter, when it
is the same as any other forbidden labor. Here too it must inevitably
die when crushed.

[93](#sdfootnote93anc) Hence its death is more than unintentional, but
actually contrary to his desire.

[94](#sdfootnote94anc) The blood that gushes forth from its cut throat
stains and dyes the flesh.

[95](#sdfootnote95anc) That it is freshly killed.

[96](#sdfootnote96anc) Salting the hide being the first step in the
tanning process.

[97](#sdfootnote97anc) Before cutting.

[98](#sdfootnote98anc) It is then salted very much and is thus akin to
tanning.

[99](#sdfootnote99anc) Tosaf. and Jast. Rashi: he who smoothes the
ground between the columns.

[100](#sdfootnote100anc) To make them all of the same level.

[101](#sdfootnote101anc) To measure.

[102](#sdfootnote102anc) Giving it its final touches.

[103](#sdfootnote103anc) Where the blowing shapes it.

[104](#sdfootnote104anc) I.e., anything sticking out of the web, as
thread, knots, splinters, etc., which was accidentally woven into the
material.

[105](#sdfootnote105anc) As this completes their labor.

[106](#sdfootnote106anc) And would not wear the garments otherwise.

[107](#sdfootnote107anc) Hence it is possible to incur more than
thirty-nine sin-offerings, whereas the number stated is to exclude this
possibility.

[108](#sdfootnote108anc) In order to even it.

[109](#sdfootnote109anc) For later use.

[110](#sdfootnote110anc) It is large enough to be put away for later
use.

[111](#sdfootnote111anc) If he carries it out, since by putting it away
he showed that he attaches a value to it. But for others it is of no
account; hence if they carry it out there is no liability.

[112](#sdfootnote112anc) A tree, or perhaps a post, devoted to idolatry;
V. Deut. XVI, 21. It is forbidden to benefit thereof.

[113](#sdfootnote113anc) It was thought that if an animal consumed blood
drawn from any person, that person would lose strength.

[114](#sdfootnote114anc) Thus a wealthy man is not liable for carrying
out something which he personally would not put away, though most people
would. But according to our Mishnah general practice is the decisive
factor for all, and the exceptions are ignored.

