---
title: "Theology of Biblical Criticism"
pdf: "theologybiblicalcriticism.pdf"
description: "Theology of Biblical Criticism - "
tableofcontents: true
template: topic.jade
---


History Biblical Theology
=========================

[History Biblical Theology 2](#__RefHeading__1040_1465259879)

[II. Reformation 2](#__RefHeading__1042_1465259879)

[III. Orthodox Scholasticism 2](#__RefHeading__1044_1465259879)

[IV. Rationalist Reaction 2](#__RefHeading__1046_1465259879)

[V. Rise of the Philosophy of Religion
3](#__RefHeading__1048_1465259879)

[VI. Conservative Reaction 3](#__RefHeading__1050_1465259879)

[VII. Liberal Historicism in NT Theology
4](#__RefHeading__1052_1465259879)

[VIII. Victory of Religion over Theology
5](#__RefHeading__1054_1465259879)

[IX. Contemporary Return to Biblical Theology
8](#__RefHeading__1056_1465259879)

[Nature of Biblical Theology 15](#__RefHeading__1058_1465259879)

[I. Introduction 15](#__RefHeading__1060_1465259879)

[II. Theology 16](#__RefHeading__1062_1465259879)

[III. Biblical 18](#__RefHeading__1064_1465259879)

[IV. Historical 19](#__RefHeading__1066_1465259879)

[V. Revelation 21](#__RefHeading__1068_1465259879)

[VI. Hermeneutics 22](#__RefHeading__1070_1465259879)

[VII. Unity and Diversity 22](#__RefHeading__1072_1465259879)

[VIII. Methodology 23](#__RefHeading__1074_1465259879)

[IX. Goal 23](#__RefHeading__1076_1465259879)

[Criticism 24](#__RefHeading__1078_1465259879)

[I. Textual Criticism 24](#__RefHeading__1080_1465259879)

[II. Literary and Historical Criticism
25](#__RefHeading__1082_1465259879)

[III. Form Criticism 34](#__RefHeading__1084_1465259879)

[IV. Redaction Criticism 37](#__RefHeading__1086_1465259879)

[V. Criticism and Christology 38](#__RefHeading__1088_1465259879)

I. Middle Ages

Biblical theology as such is a modern discipline. During the Middle Ages
biblical study was almost completely subordinated to ecclesiastical
dogma. The theology of the Bible was used to reinforce the dogmatic
teachings of the Church, which were founded upon both the Bible and
church tradition. Not the Bible alone, historically understood, but the
Bible as interpreted by tradition was the source of dogmatic theology.

II. Reformation

The Reformers reacted against the unbiblical character of dogmatic
theology and insisted that theology must be founded upon the Bible
alone. Dogmatics should be the systematic formulation of the teachings
of the Bible. This new emphasis led to a study of the original languages
of Scripture and to a recognition of the role of history in biblical
theology. The Reformers also insisted that the Bible should be
interpreted historically and not allegorically; and this led to the
beginnings of a truly biblical theology. However, the Reformers’ sense
of history was undeveloped, and they did not pursue biblical theology as
a distinctive discipline.

III. Orthodox Scholasticism

The gain in the historical study of the Bible made by the Reformers was
partly lost in the post-Reformation period, and the Bible was once again
used uncritically and unhistorically to support orthodox doctrine. The
Bible was viewed not only as a book free from error and contradiction
but also without development or progress. The entire Bible was looked
upon as possessing one level of theological value. History was
completely lost in dogma, and philology became a branch of dogmatics.

IV. Rationalist Reaction

Biblical theology as a distinct discipline is a product of the impact of
the Enlightenment (*Aufklärung*) upon biblical studies. A new approach
to the study of the Bible emerged in the 18th cent which gradually freed
itself altogether from ecclesiastical and theological control and
interpreted the Bible with what it claimed to be “complete objectivity,”
regarding it solely as a product of history. From this perspective, the
Bible was viewed as a compilation of ancient religious writings
preserving the history of an ancient Semitic people, and was studied
with the same presuppositions with which one studies other Semitic
religions. This conclusion was clearly articulated by J. P. Gabler, who
in an inaugural address in 1787 distinguished sharply between biblical
theology and dogmatic theology. Biblical theology must be strictly
historical and independent of dogmatic theology, tracing the rise of
religious ideas in Israel and setting forth what the biblical writers
thought about religious matters. Dogmatic theology, on the other hand,
makes use of biblical theology, extracting from it what has universal
relevance and making use of philosophical concepts. Dogmatic theology is
that which a particular theologian decides about divine matters,
considered philosophically and rationally in accordance with the outlook
and demands of his own age; but biblical theology is concerned solely
with what men believed long ago.

Gabler was essentially a rationalist, and his approach to biblical
theology prevailed for some fifty years. Works on the theology of the
Bible were written by Kaiser (1813), De Wette (1813), Baumgarten-Crusius
(1828), and von Cölln (1836). Some scholars of this period were
extremely rationalistic, finding in the Bible religious ideas that were
in accord with the universal laws of reason. Others tried to reconcile
Christian theology with the thought forms of the modern period. While
this rationalistic perspective as such is long since passé, it is
obvious that this historical approach to the study of the Bible is still
the fundamental assumption of modern scholarship; and even Evangelical
scholars employ the historical method, although with limitations.

V. Rise of the Philosophy of Religion

Rationalism was superseded under the influence of the idealist
philosophy of Hegel (d. 1813), who saw the Absolute Idea or Absolute
Spirit eternally manifesting itself in the universe and in human
affairs. Hegel taught that the movement of human thought followed the
dialectic pattern from a position (thesis) to an opposite position
(antithesis), from which interaction emerged a new insight or aspect of
reality (synthesis). Hegel saw in the history of religion the evolution
of spirit in its dialectical apprehension of the divine, from nature
religions, through religions of spiritual individuality, to the Absolute
Religion, which is Christianity.

Under the influence of Hegel, Vatke wrote a biblical theology in 1835 in
which the emerging critical views about the OT were combined with
Hegel’s evolutionary philosophy. His interpretation of the history of
Israel’s religion was much in advance of his day and was passed over for
some thirty years until it was taken up and popularized by Wellhausen.

Under the influence of Hegel, F. C. Baur abandoned the rationalistic
effort to find timeless truth in the NT, and instead found in the
historical movements in the early Church the unfolding of wisdom and
spirit. The teachings of Jesus formed the point of departure. Jesus’
teachings were not yet theology but the expression of his religious
consciousness. Theological reflection began over the question of the
law. Paul, the first theologian, took the position that the Christian
was freed from the law (thesis). Jewish Christianity, represented
particularly by James and Peter, took the opposite position, that the
law was permanently valid and must remain an essential element in the
Christian Church (antithesis). Baur interpreted the history of apostolic
Christianity in terms of this conflict between Pauline and Judaistic
Christianity. Out of the conflict emerged in the 2nd cent the Old
Catholic Church, which effected a successful harmonization between these
two positions (synthesis).

Baur was less concerned with the truth of the Scriptures than with the
effort to trace historical development. He has made a lasting
contribution, for the principle that biblical theology is rooted in
history is sound, even though Baur’s application of this principle is
not. Baur’s interpretation gave rise to the so-called Tübingen school,
which had great influence in German NT studies.

VI. Conservative Reaction

These new approaches to the study of the Bible naturally met with a
strong resistance in orthodox circles, not only from those who denied
the validity of a historical approach but also from those who tried to
combine the historical approach with a belief in revelation. Influential
was E. W. Hengstenberg’s *Christology of the OT* (Engtr 1829–1835) and
*History of the Kingdom of God under the OT* (Engtr 1869–1871).
Hengstenberg saw little progress in revelation, made little distinction
between the two Testaments, and interpreted the prophets spiritually
with little reference to history. A more historical approach was
structured by J. C. K. Hofmann in a series of writings beginning in 1841
(*Verheissung und Erfüllung*), in which he attempted to vindicate the
authority and inspiration of the Bible by historical means, developing
his *Heilsgeschichte* theology. Hofmann found in the Bible record of the
process of holy or saving-history, which aims at the redemption of all
mankind. This process will not be completed until the eschatological
consummation. He tried to assign every book of the Bible to its place in
this scheme of the history of redemption. This so-called Erlangen school
(including also J. A. Bengel, J. T. Beck), did not regard the Bible
primarily as a collection of proof texts or a repository of doctrine but
as the witness to what God had done in saving-history. They held that
the propositional statements in Scripture were not meant to be an end in
themselves nor an object of faith, but were designed to bear witness to
the redemptive acts of God.

The most important product of the conservative reaction for this
discipline was G. F. Oehler’s *Theologie des* AT (*Prolegomena* 1845,
*Theologie* 1873; Engtr 1883). Conservative in his critical views and
holding to the revealed character of OT religion, Oehler also recognized
that OT theology is a historical discipline which must describe the OT
faith as a phenomenon in history. He criticized the older view, which
limited theological exposition to the didactic contents of the Bible,
insisting that the discipline must “exhibit properly the internal
connection of the doctrine of Revelation with the revealing history” (p.
6). Thus he found the OT to be mediated through a series of divine acts
and commands, and also through the institutions of a divine state. A
condensation of Oehler’s large work was made by R. F. Weidner (1896).
Other conservative OT scholars were Baumgarten, C. A. Auberlen, and the
commentator Franz Delitzsch.

The Erlangen school had great influence in conservative circles upon
such scholars as Tholuck, T. Zahn, P. Feine, and is represented in the
theologies of F. Büchsel (1937), A. Schlatter (1909), and Ethelbert
Stauffer (1941; Engtr 1955). Stauffer rejects the “systems of doctrine”
approach and does not try to trace the development of the Christian
understanding of the person and work of Jesus. Rather, he presents a
“Christocentric theology of History in the NT,” i.e., the theology of
the plan of salvation enacted in NT history. The book does not
distinguish between canonical and noncanonical writings and ignores the
variety of the several interpretations of the meaning of Christ in the
NT.

A new form of the *Heilsgeschichte* theology has emerged in recent
years, for there is a widespread recognition that revelation has
occurred in redemptive history and that *Heilsgeschichte* is the best
key to understand the unity of the Bible. This will be developed later.

VII. Liberal Historicism in NT Theology

Bultmann has pointed out that the logical consequence of Baur’s method
would have been a complete relativism (*NT Theology*, II [1955], 245),
for the liberal mind could not conceive of absolute truth in the
relativities of history. Under the influence of Ritschlian theology, the
essence of Christianity was interpreted as a pure spiritual-ethical
religion which was proclaimed by and embodied in the life and mission of
Jesus. The kingdom of God is the highest good, the ethical ideal. The
heart of religion is personal fellowship with God as Father.

This theological interpretation was reinforced by the solution of the
Synoptic problem, with its discovery of the priority of Mark and the
hypothetical document Q. Scholars of this “old liberalism” believed that
in these most primitive documents historical science had at last
discovered the true Jesus, freed from all theological interpretation.
Biblical theologians of this school began with this “historical” picture
of the ethical religion of Jesus and then traced the diverse systems of
doctrine (*Lehrbegriffe*) that emerged as the result of later reflection
and speculation. The great classic of this school is H. J. Holtzmann’s
*Lehrbuch der NT Theologie* (1896/97). Paul Wernle’s *The Beginnings of
Our Religion* (Engtr 1903/04) is another example. Adolf von Harnack’s
*What Is Christianity?* (Engtr 1901) is a classic statement of this
liberal view.

This “old liberal” approach influenced even conservative writers. Both
B. Weiss (*Theology of the NT* [1868; Engtr 1903]) and W. Beyschlag
(1891; Engtr 1895) interpreted Jesus primarily in spiritual terms,
placing great emphasis upon the centrality of the Fatherhood of God.
These men were conservative in that they recognized the reality of
revelation and the validity of the canon; but their picture of Jesus
shared the features of liberalism. They also employed the “systems of
doctrine” method, Weiss going so far as to discover four different
periods of theological development in Paul, which he treated separately.
This approach is found in English in the writings of Orello Cone, *The
Gospel and Its Earliest Interpreters* (1893), G. B. Stevens, *Theology
of the NT* (1899), E. P. Gould, *Biblical Theology of the NT* (1900),
and A. C. Zenos, *Plastic Age of the Gospel* (1927). The same method is
used by even more conservative writers in Germany, such as T. Zahn,
*Grundriss der NT Theologie* (1932), and P. Feine, *Theologie des NT*
(1910).

VIII. Victory of Religion over Theology

Along with liberalism developed the *religionsgeschichtliche Schule*. In
1883 appeared Julius Wellhausen’s *Prolegomena zur Geschichte Israels,*
which has been often called the most important work in OT criticism in
the 19th century. Taking over Vatke’s historico-philosophical
interpretation, Wellhausen gave classic expression to the view that the
story of Israel’s religion was not to be interpreted in terms of divine
revelation but in terms of evolutionary principles; the religious
development of the OT period embodies particular examples of general
religious laws manifesting themselves in history. Wellhausen popularized
both the idea of evolutionary development of OT religion and the
documentary hypothesis, illustrating how criticism and theology interact
upon each other. In Wellhausen’s reconstruction the religion of Israel
began with Moses, not the patriarchs; the fundamental law of the Jewish
community belongs to the postexilic community, not to Mosaic times;
eschatology is a late postexilic development in the evolution of Hebrew
religion; and the ethical monotheism of the prophets was the basic force
that molded Israel’s religion into a significant faith.

Wellhausen’s work marks the beginning of the period that saw the
apparent death of OT theology and the victory of the discipline called
the “history of the religion of Israel.” Even the name “theology of the
OT” was seldom used; and when books were written with this title, as for
instance by B. Stade (1905) and Kayser (1886), the contents were not
theology but a history of Hebrew religion. Treatises on Hebrew religion
were written by Smend (1893), K. Marti (Engtr 1907), E. Kautzsch (HDB,
V. 612–734), A. Loisy (Engtr 1910), K. Budde (1910), E. Koenig (1915),
R. Kittel (Engtr 1921), G. Hoelscher (1922), and M. Loehr (Engtr 1936).
In English the approach is found in the misnamed work of A. Duff, *OT
Theology* (1891), and it appears clearly in W. O. E. Oesterley and T. H.
Robinson, *Hebrew Religion: Its Origin and Development* (1930), A. C.
Knudson, *Religious Teaching of the OT* (1918), G. A. Barton, *Religion
of Israel* (1919), and in the widely used book of H. E. Fosdick, *Guide
to the Understanding of the Bible* (1938; see Eichrodt’s criticism in
JBL, 65 [1946], 205–217). Although this approach has now given way
before the revival in interest in the theology of the Bible, it persists
in such works as I. G. Matthews, *Religious Pilgrimage of Israel*
(1947), S. V. McCasland, *Religion of the Bible* (1960), and R. H.
Pfeiffer, *Religion in the OT* (1961).

The interpretation of the OT as the story of the evolution of one
Semitic religion naturally led to a comparison between Hebrew religion
and other Semitic religions, and to the search for common patterns,
particularly of ritual practice. W. R. Smith in *Religion of the
Semites* (1889) emphasized the common elements shared by the Hebrews
with the neighboring religions. The interpretation of biblical religion
in terms of its religious environment is called the
*religionsgeschichtliche Methode*.

This approach still persists in contemporary scholarship, particularly
in what is called the “myth and ritual school,” which believes that a
common culture pattern, at least in the sphere of religious belief and
practice, had been diffused throughout the ancient Orient and is
reflected in the OT. See S. H. Hooke, *Myth and Ritual* (1933); *The
Labyrinth* (1935); E. O. James, *Myth and Ritual in the Ancient Near
East* (1958). S. Mowinckel (*Psalmenstudien* [1922–24]; *He That Cometh*
[Engtr 1956]) traced the origin of eschatology to a New Year Festival in
which the return of the rainy season with its resultant renewal of
fertility was celebrated as an annual accession of the divine King to
His throne when He resumed His divine reign. The existence of such an
enthronement festival is not explicit in the OT but is assumed from the
analogy of the Babylonian New Year ritual and from alleged traces of a
supposed cult-myth in the Psalms. See also A. R. Johnson, *Sacral
Kingship in Ancient Israel* (1955).

During the early part of this period, efforts were still made to
interpret the religion of the OT from a theological point of view. A
Dillmann (1895) rejected the Wellhausen hypothesis and argued that a
comparative study of Semitic religions would demonstrate the uniqueness
of OT religion. Other works accepted the Wellhausen hypothesis, but
tried to give a systematic view of Israel’s religious outlook. C.
Piepenbring (1886) found elements of permanent value in the historical
development. H. Schultz adopted the Wellhausen hypothesis in the 2nd
edition of his OT theology (1878), and tried to solve the problem of
history and theology by giving first a historical account of the
development of Israel’s religion and then a topical treatment in which
the several theological concepts were traced through the various
periods. However, he felt that the diversity of religious ideas was so
great that there were virtually different theologies in the different
periods. In England, A. B. Davidson’s *Theology of the OT* (1904)
reflects the same uneasy truce between history and theology. Although he
states that the proper subject of OT theology is the history of the
religion of Israel (p. 11), he attempts to create a theology out of the
religious beliefs and ideas in the OT, and in effect he has produced a
theology of the OT. H. W. Robinson wrote a small book on *The Religious
Ideas of the OT* (1913) in which he presented a few simple yet profound
ideas which he found behind the variety of OT religion, and which he set
forth with some indication of their theological value.

The works of Schultz and Davidson were the last efforts for a generation
to attempt to set forth the theological significance of OT religion. The
history-of-religion approach had triumphed. A philosophy of evolutionary
naturalism was substituted for that of revealed religion. Many studies
in the history of Israel’s religion appeared, but even conservative
writers did not attempt to write theologies of the OT.

This “comparative religions” approach also dominated NT study.
Liberalism found the distinctive element of biblical theology in the
simple ethical teaching of Jesus. While its representatives paid some
attention to the influence of the religious environment of early
Christianity (Holtzmann’s *Theologie* devoted 120 pages to a sketch of
Jewish and Hellenistic backgrounds), the essence of Christianity was
treated as something unique, though Holtzmann recognized Hellenistic
influences on Paul.

Otto Pfleiderer presaged a new approach. The 1st edition of *Das
Urchristentum* (1887) took the same position as Harnack and Holtzmann;
but in the 2nd edition (1902; Engtr 1906, *Primitive Christianity*) he
interpreted many elements in NT theology in terms of their religious
environment. The program for this new approach was presented by W. Wrede
in 1897 in a little book entitled *Über Aufgabe und Methode der
sogenannten NT Theologie*. He attacked the prevailing method of
interpreting NT theology as a series of doctrinal systems, for the
Christian faith is religion, not theology or a system of ideas. NT
theology has the task not of formulating timeless truths, whether these
be mediated by a supernatural revelation or discovered by rational
thought, but of formulating expressions of the living religious
experiences of early Christianity, understood in light of the religious
environment. Therefore the theology of the NT must be displaced by the
history of religion in primitive Christianity. (See also A. Deissmann in
ZTK, 3 [1893], 126–139.)

This new approach had two distinct centers of interest: the
interpretation of NT ideas in terms of expressions of religious
experience, and the explanation of the rise of these religious
experiences and ideas in terms of the religious environment. One of the
first to attempt the former task was H. Weinel in his *Biblische
Theologie des NT* (1913). Weinel was not primarily interested in the
value or truth of Christianity but only in its nature in comparison with
other religions. He set forth types of religions against which
Christianity is to be understood as an ethical religion of redemption.
Books in English that reflect this influence are S. J. Case, *Evolution
of Early Christianity* (1914), E. W. Parsons, *Religion of the NT*
(1939), and E. F. Scott, *Varieties of NT Religion* (1943).

The basic assumption of this approach led to very different treatments
of Jesus and Paul. In 1892, J. Weiss published a booklet of sixty-seven
pages on *Die Predigt Jesu vom Reiche Gottes* in which he interpreted
Jesus’ message of the kingdom in terms of the milieu of Jewish
apocalyptic. This approach was made famous by Albert Schweitzer’s *Von
Reimarus zu Wrede* (1906; Engtr QHJ), which gives a history of the
interpretation of Jesus and then in a hundred pages interprets Jesus in
terms of “Consistent Eschatology,” i.e., as a Jewish apocalyptist who
belongs to first-century Judaism and has little relevance for the modern
man. This preacher of eschatology was diametrically opposed to the
ethical teacher of the pure religion of the Fatherhood of God as
sketched by Harnack and Holtzmann, and it became clear that the “old
liberal” Jesus was a distinct modernization. Eschatology, instead of
being the husk (Harnack), was shown by Schweitzer to be the very kernel
of Jesus’ message.

If Jesus was interpreted in terms of the milieu of Jewish apocalyptic,
Paul was interpreted in terms of Hellenistic Judaism or the Hellenistic
cults and mystery religions. Some scholars, like Bousset, still
interpreted Jesus along the lines of liberalism but applied the
*religionsgeschichtliche Methode* to Paul. Brückner argued that Paul
found a ready-made doctrine of a heavenly man in Judaism, which he
applied to Jesus. Gunkel held that there had sprung up in the Orient a
syncretistic religion, gnostic in character, with faith in the
resurrection as its central doctrine. This pre-Christian Gnosticism had
penetrated Judaism, and through this medium influenced Christianity,
even before Paul. W. Bousset put this view on a firmer basis by arguing
that Gnosticism was not a heretical new formation in Christianity, as
Harnack had supposed, but was a pre-Christian pagan phenomenon, oriental
rather than Greek, and religious and mystical rather than philosophical.
In his *Kyrios Christos* (1913) Bousset traced the history of belief in
Jesus in the early Church, and sharply distinguished between the
religious consciousness of Jesus, the faith of primitive Christianity,
which held Jesus to be the transcendental Son of man of Jewish
apocalyptic, and the view of the Hellenistic Church and of Paul, who
held Jesus to be a divinity, like the Greek cult lords.

The most important NT theology emobodying this approach is Rudolf
Bultmans. Bultmann differed from Bousset in that he interpreted Jesus in
terms of Jewish apocalyptic; but he followed Bousset in his
understanding of the Hellenistic Church and Paul. However, Bultmann
added a new feature in his existential understanding of these NT
“myths,” which will be discussed below.

IX. Contemporary Return to Biblical Theology

During the 1920’s a new viewpoint began to make itself felt which
resulted in a revival of biblical theology. Factors contributing to this
revival included a loss of faith in evolutionary naturalism, a reaction
against the purely historical method, which claimed complete objectivity
and believed in the adequacy of bare facts to disclose the truth of
history, and the recovery of the concept of revelation. This led to the
conviction that the OT contained both history and a word concerning the
ultimate meaning of history. Thus the study of biblical theology turned
its attention to discovering what is of permanent value in OT religion.

The first theological work on the OT in this period was by E. König
(1922). König, however, wrote as an old man who had defended the
conservative view of Israel’s history against Wellhausenism, and who
opposed the evolutionary method. The new emphasis is seen in essays by
R. Kittel, C. Steuernagel, O. Eissfeldt, and W. Eichrodt published in
ZAW. Rudolf Kittel (1921) admitted the shortcomings of the purely
critical approach and urged scholarship to recapture the study of the OT
as a theological discipline. Steuernagel (1925) recognized that the
other theological disciplines needed a systematic presentation of OT
theology which the history-of-religion method could not provide.
Eissfeldt (1926) urged that there were two different methods of studying
the OT, standing side by side: the historical method, which deals
empirically with the history of Hebrew religion, evaluating the
objective data by reason and critical methodology; and the theological
method, which recognizes by faith the timeless truths embodied in the
OT.

Eichrodt (1933) rejected Eissfeldt’s view of two different disciplines
and held that a fruitful combination of the two methods is possible. The
task of theology is to penetrate to the essence of the OT religion and
throw light on the inner structure of its theological system. When
Eichrodt later published his OT theology (1933–1938) he took the idea of
the covenant from the OT itself as a center in terms of which all the
theology of the OT was to be understood, and produced a systematic
synthesis of the essential doctrines of the religion of Israel.

In the years that followed, a succession of OT theologies was produced
in Europe. E. Sellin (1933) viewed the entire Bible as an essential
unity and presented the major ideas of the OT in systematic form; but he
selected only those basic doctrines such as God, man, and salvation
which are common to the various parts of the OT and which give to its
theology a consistent unity. The revived theological approach to the OT
is more vividly seen in W. Vischer’s *Witness of the OT to Christ*
(1934; Engtr 1949). Vischer to a large degree disregarded the
distinction between the Testaments and used allegorical exegesis to
discover in the OT what Christ is.

Although L. Koehler’s OT theology (1936) was more historical in
approach, it attempted a synthesis of the thoughts and concepts of the
OT that are or can be important. E. Jacob (1955) defended the view that
the OT is one book, presenting one religion whose strands come together
in Christ. He held that both the “religion of Israel” and the “theology
of the OT” are historical disciplines, the former showing the variety of
the history and its evolution, the latter displaying its unity. OT
theology is the systematic account of the specific religious ideas which
can be found throughout the OT and which form its profound unity. O.
Procksch (1949) was influenced by von Hofmann and viewed OT theology
from the perspective of saving-history.

T. C. Vriezen published an *Outline of OT Theology* in Dutch in 1949
which has been translated both into German and English (Engtr 1958). OT
theology has as its object not the religion of Israel but the OT; and
the OT is not to be studied in isolated detachment but in its
relationship to the NT. He therefore selected the central themes and
materials that are important for Christian faith. A later German work,
that of G. von Rad (1957, 1961), is a sort of *Heilsgeschichte*; yet it
is not a theological interpretation of the modern historian’s
reconstruction of the events of Israel’s history, but the theology of
tranditions that Israel held about its own history. He has therefore
been criticized by critical scholars for placing a gulf between history
and theology.

The new theological approach to the OT made a strong impact on Great
Britain but by the mid-1970’s had produced few full-scale OT theologies
there. H. W. Robinson reflected the new trend in the second volume of
essays by the Society for OT Study (*Record and Revelation,* ed H. W.
Robinson [1938]) in which he emphasized a *heilsgeschichtlich*
(saving-history) approach to revelation. Revelation is not the
communication of abstract truth but the gradual disclosure, through the
concrete experiences of life, of a pattern of divine purpose steadily
unfolding itself in history, and pointing to the climax in the NT
without which it is incomplete. Later Robinson expanded this thesis in
*Inspiration and Revelation in the OT* (1946), which was designed to be
a prolegomena to an OT theology that he did not live to write.

N. H. Snaith vigorously criticized the comparative-religions approach
because it ignored any distinctive elements in the Bible. He found
theology in the distinctive beliefs in the OT which set it apart from
other religions and which are further developed in the NT. H. H. Rowley
wrote many volumes dealing with the thought of the OT, and in *The Faith
of Israel* (1956) he, like Snaith, argued that OT theology is to be
found in the distinctive elements in the religion of Israel. He
recognized evolution and borrowing from other religions but was unable
to account for the essence of Israel’s religion in these terms. He saw
within OT history and religion a self-revelation of God which results in
something timeless and of enduring validity; this constitutes OT
theology. The most thoroughgoing theological treatment was that of G. A.
F. Knight, *A Christian Theology of the OT* (1959), which studies the OT
not in terms of Israel’s religion or historical development but in terms
of the OT message to the 20th cent in light of the Christian revelation
as a whole. N. W. Porteous in the third volume of essays by the Society
for OT study (OTMS) differentiated between OT religion and theology,
finding theology in a critical evaluation of the knowledge of God
resulting from the human reaction to the Word spoken in the events of OT
history. This thesis is unfolded in his essay in the revised edition of
Peake’s *comm on the Bible* (1962).

The new theological concern also strongly influenced American
scholarship. In 1940, W. F. Albright (FSAC) rejected positivistic
historicism in favor of an “organismic” philosophy of history, defending
the basic soundness of the main outlines of the OT tradition and tracing
essential monotheism to Moses. This thesis was reinforced in ARI (1942).
Millar Burrows in *An Outline of Biblical Theology* (1946) pointed out
the loss of a note of authority in biblical preaching as a result of
modern critical study of the Bible. Burrows then sketched the
development of the several theological concepts throughout the entire
Bible. He distinguished between history and theology by holding that
theology asks for God’s judgment on the religion of Israel and of
primitive Christianity and seeks its modern significance. O. J. Baab in
his OT theology (1949) admitted the sterility and failure of the pure
objective-historical study of Israel’s religion. He argued that we must
interpret the biblical religion and history from the viewpoint of the
faith by which the men of the Bible lived. R. C. Dentan in his *Preface
to OT Theology* (1950) defined biblical theology as “that Christian
theological discipline which treats the religious ideas of the OT
systematically, i.e., not from the point of view of historical
development, but from that of the structural unity of OT religion” (p.
48).

G. E. Wright showed that the OT teaching cannot be explained as a
natural evolution resulting from environmental influences (*The OT
Against Its Environment* [1950]). OT theology is neither a history of
biblical ideas nor a systematic cross section of these ideas treated
under the rubrics of dogmatic theology. It is rather a confessional
recital of the redemptive acts of God in history together with their
theological meaning (*God Who Acts* [1952]). This exposition Wright
undertook in his essay on “The Faith of Israel” in the first volume of
IB (1952).

Among modern Roman Catholic works is the *Theologie des AT* by Paul
Heinisch (1940; Engtr 1955). Heinisch does not make it his main purpose,
as had earlier Roman Catholic writers, to use biblical theology as a
tool for defending the doctrines of the Church. He interprets the OT in
its historical setting. OT theology is the systematic presentation of
what the OT leaders, who were raised up and inspired by God, required as
to faith and morals; while the religion of Israel shows how the people
responded to the directives of their religious teachers and how the
environment and cultural progress affected the development of spiritual
ideas.

In spite of this renaissance in biblical theology, conservative writers
have had little to contribute to the dialogue, at least on the level of
critical studies. R. B. Girdlestone’s *OT Theology and Modern Ideas*
(1909) is not a theology of the OT but a series of essays on various
theological themes. In 1948, G. Vos’ *Biblical Theology* was published
posthumously. The work breaks off abruptly in the midst of a discussion
of the revelation in Jesus’ ministry, and it is more an extended essay
on revelation in the OT than a biblical theology. A contemporary writer
in the same conservative tradition, E. J. Young, wrote an introductory
study under the title *The Study of OT Theology Today* (1958). See also
his remarks in EQ, 31 (1959), 52f, 136–142. Young assumed such a very
conservative stance that he denied that the modern movement was really a
resurgence of true biblical theology, for any theology that does not
accept the complete trustworthiness of Scripture “is not taught by God,
does not teach God and does not lead to God” (EQ, 31 [1959], 53).
Young’s position has been criticized by other conservative scholars for
“passing judgment by implication on all works on modern OT theology” (E.
L. Ellison, EQ, 31 [1959], 52). J. B. Payne has produced a comprehensive
*Theology of the Older Testament* (1962). Payne, like Eichrodt, takes
the concept of the covenant as the integrating center for OT theology;
but instead of finding the meaning of the covenant in the OT concept of
*b*<sup>*e*</sup>*rîṯ*, he turns to the Greek meaning of *diathēkē* as
it is used in He. 9:16ff, and structures the entire pattern of OT
theology around this Greek concept.

The new approach to theology changed the complexion of NT studies. The
historical assurance of liberalism was challenged by Martin Kähler in a
book that has proved to be crucial for the modern debate. Kähler
structured the problem in terms of *Der sogenannte historische Jesus und
der geschichtliche biblische Christus* (1898). The *historische* Jesus,
i.e., the Jesus reconstructed by the liberal critical method, never
really existed in history but only in the critical imagination of
scholarship. The only Jesus who possesses reality is the Christ pictured
in the Bible, whose character is such that he cannot be reconstructed by
the methods of scientific historiography. The Gospels are not historical
(*historische*) documents in the scientific sense of the term, but
witnesses to the Christ. They are kerygma, not “history”; and it is
impossible to get behind the kerygma. Indeed, the “historical Jesus”
serves only to obscure from us the living biblical Christ. The real
*geschichtliche* Christ is the Christ who is attested in the Gospels and
who is preached by the Church.

Another signpost pointing in the same direction was the book by W.
Wrede, *Das Messiasgeheimnis in den Evangelien* (1901). Wrede shattered
the liberal portrait of the historical Jesus by showing that the Jesus
of Mark was not the inspired prophet but a messianic (divine) being.
Wrede differed from Kähler in that he did not accept the Markan portrait
of Jesus as true but attempted to explain historically how the
nonmessianic, historical Jesus became the messianic Christ of the
Gospels.

In the years that followed, gospel criticism turned to the study of the
oral stage of the gospel tradition (*Formgeschichte*) to try to discover
the laws controlling the tradition which could explain the
transformation of the “historical” Jesus into the kerygmatic Christ. One
outstanding aspect of this study was the admission that form criticism
could not find in any stratum of the gospel tradition a purely
historical Jesus. The resultant “kerygmatic” approach has issued in two
very different interpretations of the NT.

On the one hand, E. H. Hoskyns and Noel Davey in *The Riddle of the NT*
(1931) show that all the evidence of the NT converges on a single point:
that in Jesus, God revealed Himself for man’s salvation. The critical
method has revealed most clearly the living unity of the NT documents.
The historian is compelled to state that both the unity and uniqueness
of this claim are historical facts. This claim, while occurring in
history, transcends history, for it demands of the historian what he as
a historian may not give: a theological judgment of ultimate
significance.

Th “kerygmatic” interpretation of NT theology received its greatest
impetus through the writings of C. H. Dodd. In his inaugural lecture at
Cambridge University, Dodd called for a new emphasis on the unity of NT
thought in place of the analytic approach, which had prevailed
throughout the preceding century. In the same year (1936) he implemented
his own suggestion in *Apostolic Preaching and Its Developments*. Dodd
finds the unity of the NT message in the kerygma, the heart of which is
the proclamation that the new age has come in the person and mission of
Jesus. Here for the first time, a single biblical concept was used to
relate the NT materials to a unified development. Dodd has enlarged upon
this thesis in *The Parables of the Kingdom* (1935) and *The
Interpretation of the Fourth Gospel* (1935), interpreting both the
message of Jesus and that of the Gospel of John in terms of the
inbreaking of the age to come. While this approach is sound in
principle, Dodd’s work has the defect of understanding the age to come
in terms of Platonic thought rather than biblical eschatology. The age
to come is the “wholly other,” the eternal breaking into the temporal,
instead of the future age breaking into the present age.

This kerygmatic theology has produced an extensive literature. The
outstanding American protagonist has been F. V. Filson. His *One Lord,
One Faith* (1943) defends the unity of the NT message, and his *Jesus
Christ the Risen Lord* (1956) argues that NT theology must understand NT
history from the theological point of view, i.e., from the standpoint of
the living God who acts in history, the most notable event being the
resurrection of Christ. Filson interprets the entire NT theology in
light of the Resurrection.

A. M. Hunter expounded *The Unity of the NT* (1944, American title *The
Message of the NT*) in terms of One Lord, One Church, One Salvation.
More recently, in a slim volume *Introducing NT Theology* (1957), he has
expounded the “fact of Christ,”; he includes in this term “the totality
of what Jesus Christ’s coming involved, his person, work and words, of
course, but also the Resurrection, the advent of the Spirit and the
creation of the new Israel…” (p. 9).

Oscar Cullmann also follows the *Heilsgeschichte* interpretation, and
provides an excellent corrective for Dodd’s Platonic approach. In
*Christ and Time* (1946; Engtr 1950, 1964) he argues that the NT finds
its unity in a common conception of time and history rather than in
ideas of essence, nature, eternal or existential truth. Theology is the
meaning of the historical in time. In Cullmann’s work, *Heilsgeschichte*
theology has emerged in a new form; and the principle of
*Heilsgeschichte* as the unifying center of NT theology has been widely
recognized. We can accept the basic validity of Cullmann’s approach
without agreeing with him that the NT shows no interest in questions of
nature and being but only in “functional Christology.”

Alan Richardson in his *intro to the Theology of the NT* (1958) assumed
the kerygmatic approach by accepting the hypothesis that the “brilliant
re-interpretation of the OT scheme of salvation which is found in the
NT” goes back to Jesus Himself and is not the product of the believing
community. In an essay on “Historical Theology and Biblical Theology,”
Richardson argued that biblical theology cannot use a purely objective,
scientific, neutral approach, but must interpret the biblical history
from the standpoint of a biblical faith (*Canadian Journal of Theology,*
1 [1955], 157–167).

The exponents of this “kerygmatic” approach assume that the Christ
proclaimed in the kerygma is continuous with the historical Jesus. The
“kerygmatic” factor is the interpretative element that necessarily
accompanies the event. A radically different use of the kerygmatic
approach, on the other hand, is found in the writings of Bultmann, who
found no continuity between the historical Jesus and the Christ of the
kerygma. The historical Jesus, for Bultmann, has been quite obscured
behind the layers of believing tradition, which reinterpreted the
significance of Jesus in mythological terms. Historically, Jesus was
only a Jewish apocalyptist who proclaimed the imminent apocalyptic end
of the world and warned people to prepare for the catastrophe of
judgment. He conceived of Himself neither as Messiah nor as Son of man.
He did, however, possess an overwhelming sense of the reality of God,
and He realized that He was the bearer of the Word of God for the last
hour, which placed men under the demand for decision. His death was an
incomparable tragedy, though this was redeemed from meaninglessness by
the emergence of belief in His resurrection. The early Church
reinterpreted Jesus, first in terms of the Jewish apocalyptic Son of
man, and then in terms of a conflation of the apocalyptic Son of man,
the Gnostic heavenly man, and the dying and rising cult deity of the
mystery religions. The kerygma, i.e., the early Church’s proclamation of
Christ, is a historical fact in the life of early Christianity; and
therefore there is continuity between the historical Jesus and the
kerygma. If there had been no Jesus there would have been no kerygma.
The Christ who is proclaimed in the kerygma, however, is a mythological
construction and had no existence in history, for mythology by
definition is nonhistorical. Therefore, there can be no continuity
between the historical Jesus and the Christ of the kerygma.

Bultmann’s interpretation of NT theology was controlled by his view of
God and theology. God is the wholly Other who by definition cannot break
into history or act objectively in history. The place where God acts is
in human existence. Theology consists not of eternal truths or revealed
doctrines, but of theological thoughts explicated from believing
authenticity. Theology is faith interpreting itself, i.e., it is the
theological formulation of the meaning of authentic existence.
Therefore, the order is: the kerygma, authentic existence, theological
interpretation of authenticity (*Theology of the NT,* II, 237ff).

Thus for Bultmann, NT theology was not the explication of what God has
done in past history; it was the explication of what God does in man
through the kerygma. The kerygma was a present fact, not an element of
ancient history. Authentic existence must be faith in God and in God
alone; it cannot rest upon objective events in past history. If it did,
faith would be faith in history or in the historian, not faith in God.
Therefore, the believer need not know much about the historical Jesus,
only that this man lived and died and was the beginning point of the
kerygma. Indeed, Jesus and His message were for Bultmann no part of NT
theology, but only one of its presuppositions.

Bultmann’s radical position stirred up a storm of discussion (see *Der
historische Jesus und der kerygmatische Christus*, ed H. Ristow [1960]),
and even many of his followers have been disturbed by the extremeness of
his position, which divorced the historical Jesus from the Christ of
faith and removed Him from the orbit of NT theology. They have therefore
initiated a “new quest for the historical Jesus” who will stand in a
real measure of continuity with the Christ of the kerygma. The most
notable products of this “post-Bultmannian” school to date have been
Günther Bornkamm’s *Jesus of Nazareth* (Engtr 1960), James Robinson’s
*New Quest of the Historical Jesus* (1959), and Hans Conzelmann’s
*Outline of the Theology of the NT* (Engtr 1969).

Two other notable works have appeared. In 1969, W. G. Kümmel published
*Die Theologie des NT* (Engtr 1973), a study of the theology only of the
“major witnesses: Jesus — Paul — John,” with a small section on the
faith of the primitive community. For Kümmel, the message of the
historical Jesus is essential for Christian faith. Kümmel is concerned
primarily with the unity and diversity of the major witnesses. While
fully recognizing their diversity, he finds a central unity in that all
the major witnesses give common testimony to the fact that, in Jesus,
God has initiated His eschatological salvation, and in the Christ event
God encounters men. Thus we encounter in the canonical Scriptures the
uniform witness to God’s revelation in Jesus Christ.

In 1971 Joachim Jeremias published Volume I of his *NT Theologie* (Engtr
1971). Jeremias’ position is almost exactly opposite to that of Bultmann
so far as the historical Jesus is concerned. By the use of
*Formgeschichte*, Jeremias has attempted to recover the main outlines of
the teaching of the historical Jesus. Furthermore, in his view it is in
the *ipsissima vox* of Jesus that men stand face to face with God. The
Epistles are not revelation but are the response of men to the
revelation confronting them in the historical Jesus. (See Jeremias’
important statement in *The Problem of the Historical Jesus* [Engtr
1964].)

A position somewhat analogous to that of Bultmann was espoused by the
American scholar John Knox in his *Criticism and Faith* (1952) and his
books on Christology. Knox was concerned to make faith independent of
historical criticism, and he did this by interpreting the “Christ event”
as the historical Jesus plus the responses made to Him and the meanings
found in Him by the Church. In his view, it is therefore not important
what the historical Jesus said or thought, for what the Church thought
about Him is included in the “Christ event” as the object of faith; and
this area of meaning is independent of the findings of historical
criticism. The “event” of Jesus Christ was the totality of fact and
meaning — of fact responded to, remembered, and interpreted by the
believing community.

One of the few NT theologies written in American is by F. C. Grant,
entitled *intro to NT Thought* (1950). Grant’s purpose was not primarily
historical or descriptive; rather he tried to set forth the central
concepts in the NT, such as God, man, Christ, salvation, and the Church.
Although Grant found many different theologies, i.e., interpretations of
the “divine event,” he also recognized an underlying unity in the NT
view of God, revelation, salvation, and the finality of Christ. Grant
felt that we could not recover the historical facts about Jesus. He
admitted that for the NT the risen Christ is identical with Jesus.

As in OT theology, Evangelical writers have made limited contributions
to NT Theology. Vos’s *Biblical Theology* (1948) breaks off abruptly in
the middle of Jesus’ ministry. His *Self-Disclosure of Jesus* (1926),
although long out of date, has some excellent chapters on the
christological problem in the Synoptic Gospels. Frank Stagg’s *NT
Theology* (1962) is a topical study designed more for pastors than for
scholars. The present author has published his own *Theology of the NT*
(1974), designed to be a seminary textbook, which views the NT as the
trustworthy record by various witnesses, and the normative
interpretation, of the redeeming revelatory event in Jesus Christ.

G. E. Ladd

##### Nature of Biblical Theology

I. Introduction

Biblical theology is first of all a descriptive discipline. Its purpose
is to set forth in its own historical and religious categories the
teaching of the several parts of the Bible about God, man, redemption,
ethics, and eternal destiny. This principle was long ago set forth by
Gabler, and was more recently insisted on by Stendahl (IDB, I, 418f). It
is finally the task of systematic or dogmatic theology to decide what is
normative for Christian theology.

Recognition of the descriptive character of biblical theology would
appear to be a great achievement, in that it set men free from dogmatic
presuppositions so that they could interpret the Bible in an objective
fashion. However, such “objectivity” has proved to be an illusion, for
it has led some to interpret the Bible from the perspective of modern,
rationalistic, naturalistic categories instead of in the Bible’s own
thought forms. The most vivid illustration of this is the “search for
the historical Jesus.” “The historical Jesus” is a technical term
designating a Jesus capable of being explained in naturalistic,
rationalistic categories. Modern criticism recognizes that the Gospels
represent Jesus as a divine man, having an innate consciousness of an
intimate personal relationship with His Father. Rationalism, however,
has no room for divine men. The historian qua historian has no category
of divine transcendence. Therefore, modern scholars have tried to
reconstruct a Jesus who would be completely compatible with the
categories of critical historiography — i.e., a Jesus who is only human.
In other words, the modern “historical-critical method” is not neutral
and “objective”; it is utterly prejudiced against anything supernatural.

The entire NT regards Jesus as a supernatural being, and biblical
theology must set the teachings of the Bible *in its own thought
categories and forms*. The idea of a divine man may be unpalatable to
the modern critic; but if he is true to the task, he will not try to
dilute the biblical teaching to suit modern presuppositions.

The main theme of the Bible is the self-revelation of God. The Bible may
be viewed exclusively as a record of historical people and events;
however, the Bible itself is not interested in history for its own sake
but only as it is the vehicle for the divine self-revelation. History is
recorded, but the chief concern of the Bible is the God who acts in
history.

The biblical theologian must ask: Is this claim true? Did God actually
reveal Himself to me? The answer to this question transcends the tools
of the historian qua historian. It can be answered only on the basis of
faith. Only if the critic believes that there is a personal sovereign
God who is Lord of both nature and history can he accept the Bible’s
witness. Furthermore, whether he accepts it or not will be a major
determining factor in the way he writes biblical theology. This is why
the present author has rejected the rationalistic “historical-critical
method” and opted for the “historical-theological method” (see *NT and
Criticism* [1967], pp. 14, 40), which approaches the task of biblical
theology with the presupposition that such a God does exist.

In other words, if God does exist and has really revealed Himself in a
series of historical events, only the critic who starts with this
presupposition will be able to write biblical theology as it really is.

For the critic who takes this stance, biblical theology is both a
descriptive and a normative discipline. What the theologian finds in
Scripture of the self-revelation of God, he believes to be true. This is
the stance from which the present article is written.

II. Theology

Biblical theology has to do with *theology,* i.e., with the knowledge of
the person and the creative and redeeming acts of God, of man seen in
light of the knowledge of God, and of human destiny or salvation.
Biblical theology therefore is to be distinguished from the religion of
Israel and early Christianity. Much confusion has been caused by the
frequent use of the term “biblical theology” by modern scholars
synonymously with the history of the religion of Israel and of the early
Church. The religion of Israel and of the early Church, however,
included many elements of which the Bible disapproves. Israel frequently
lapsed into the worship of pagan deities, for which the prophets rebuked
a backsliding people. The early Church included Judaizers and
Gnosticizers, who are reproved by the apostles. Historically speaking,
the theology of the Bible represents only one strand, or rather several
selected strands from a very complex religious situation; but
theologically speaking it embodies the normative interpretation of God’s
redemptive acts.

At this point, however, another historical fact must be recognized. It
is an altogether too simple and unhistorical solution to suggest that
biblical theology stands at every point in contrast with its religious
environment. Here is an involved historical and theological problem that
Evangelical scholars need to take far more seriously. The extreme
*religionsgeschichtliche* school in both the OT and NT regards biblical
religion as a syncretistic product of the religious environment. An
outstanding illustration is Bultmann, who believed that, historically,
NT Christology reflects the interpretation of Jesus of Nazareth in terms
of a synthesis of the Jewish apocalyptic Son of man, the mystery
religions’ dying and rising nature deity, and the Gnostic heavenly Lord
who descends and ascends. The extreme conservative view, under the
influence of supernaturalism, is that biblical theology is strictly
unique at every point.

Little reflection is required to demonstrate that God’s self-revelation
in history has often caught up elements from the religous milieu and
incorporated them in *Heilsgeschichte*, so that they become instruments
of revelation. For instance, one of the most common names for God in the
OT, ’El (’Elohim), is shared with Israel by its Semitic neighbors as the
name of the chief God in the pagan pantheon. Again, the rite of
sacrifice, providing the background for the meaning of the death of
Christ, is not distinctive to OT religion but is common to most
religions. The rite of circumcision, which in the OT is the sign of
God’s covenant with Israel, was practiced by most Semitic people. The
sudden unexplained appearance of elders in the NT (Acts 11:30) appears
to be nothing but the adaptation of the Jewish synagogue structure; and
the pattern of early Christian worship was undoubtedly taken from the
Jewish synagogue.

This points to the conclusion that the revelatory element in
*Heilsgeschichte* is accompanied by ordinary historical development and
interaction with the religious milieu. There is no evidence that the
primitive “Christian communism” pictured in Acts 2 and 4 was occasioned
by revelation or is a part of revelation; it was a historical
manifestation of Christian love. Evangelical scholarship needs to devote
far more attention than it has previously to the problem of the relation
of history to revelation. The revelatory character of biblical theology
is truly unique; but objective scholarship must freely recognize the
degree to which revelation has made use of secular historical factors.

If biblical theology is the normative interpretation of God’s redemptive
acts, the question must be raised: What is theology? If theology is the
permanent and normative element in biblical religion, tested by human
reason and religious experience, or if theology is man’s theological
reflections based on authentic self-understanding (Bultmann), or if
theology is the explication, the scientific self-consciousness of faith
(Ott), we will have a very different understanding of biblical theology
from that of those who regard theology as the theological truth in the
inspired Word of God. One of the central doctrines of the Bible is
revelation; and biblical theology must rest upon a biblical view of
revelation. Traditionally, orthodox theology has tended to regard the
Bible as the main vehicle of revelation. Since the entire Bible is
equally inspired, it must be of equal theological worth; and theology
has the sole task of synthesizing the many statements in the Bible into
a coherent whole. However, the Bible is not *primarily* a book of
theology but of history — the history of Israel, of Jesus, of the early
Church. This leads to the insight that the divine revelation has
occurred in historical events, the most important being the total event
of Jesus of Nazareth. *Heilsgeschichte* designates the theology that
sees the self-revelation of God in a select stream of historical events.

The events themselves, however, are not self-explanatory; there was
always a divinely initiated prophetic or apostolic word of
interpretation. That Jesus died is an objective fact that even the
Pharisees could affirm. That Jesus died *for our sins* is no less an
“objective” fact; but it is a theological event occurring within the
historical fact which could be understood only from the prophetic word
of interpretation. Revelation, therefore, occurred in the complex of
event-Word. The normative, interpretative words giving the meaning of
the redemptive events were sometimes immediately deposited in written
form (the NT Epistles); but sometimes they were first given orally,
preserved as an oral tradition, and finally committed to writing (the
Gospels). Most of the references in the NT to the “Word of God”
designate the spoken word, the gospel, the kerygma, not the written word
of the Bible. An Evangelical theology believes that the Holy Spirit
superintended the entire process. The Bible is, therefore, both the
record of God’s revealing redemptive acts and the final, normative,
authoritative deposit of the divinely given word of interpretation. Thus
revelation includes both the self-disclosure of God to men, and the
disclosure of the theological meaning of God’s revealing acts.

III. Biblical

Our discipline has to do not only with theology, but with biblical
theology in the stricter sense. This term can, of course, designate any
theology that is consistent with biblical truth. Such diverse theologies
as Calvinism and Dispensationalism consider themselves thoroughly
“biblical.” Our discipline, however, designates the theology of the
Bible viewed in its own biblical and historical perspective.

Theologies that do not regard the Bible itself as the Word of God and
the authoritative interpretation of God’s redemptive acting, tend to
distinguish sharply between biblical and dogmatic theology. The former
is viewed in strictly historical terms as the theology or theologies
found in the Bible, and is often indistinguishable from the history of
religion. Biblical theology may also be regarded as a cross section of
the theological ideas in the Bible which may or may not have normative
value. Dogmatic theology is the theology that the modern theologian
regards as normative. Such theologies often find their normative element
in some modern philosophy such as rationalism, Hegelianism,
Ritschlianism, or existentialism. The theological statements of the
Bible are used to give greater or lesser support for what each
theologian feels to be theologically true.

An Evangelical theology recognizes biblical and dogmatic (or systematic)
theology to be equally normative. There are, however, distinct
differences between the two disciplines. Biblical theology recognizes
progressive revelation in the course of redemptive history and therefore
traces the stages of revelation in the Bible to its fulfilment and
consummation in Christ. In the course of this historical development,
biblical theology must distinguish between that which is contingent and
temporary and that which is permanent even though expressed in
contingent forms. Systematic theology, on the other hand, is a
systematic arrangement of the end product of the history of revelation.
Biblical theology is primarily historical; systematic theology is
primarily synthetic. Biblical theology, as we have seen, may be defined
as the theology of the Bible viewed in its own biblical and historical
setting.

A second difference between the two disciplines results from the
systematizing principle of dogmatic theology. In pursuing this end, it
must ask questions biblical theology does not ask. These questions
admittedly come often from a Greek way of thinking. Some scholars insist
that a theology that is biblical in any sense ought to be biblical in
its form, and that a theology structured in terms of Greek categories
must ipso facto be unbiblical. This does not follow. The very word
“theology” is a Greek, not a biblical word. Since the theological
materials in the Bible are not arranged systematically, any topical
arrangement is in a sense artificial, for the Bible is a book of history
and not a theology of the covenant. Biblical theology will endeavor so
far as possible to retain the biblical order and its structure, while
systematic theology may neglect the biblical form in favor of a
synthetic or logical arrangement.

To illustrate: there cannot be said to be a “doctrine” of the trinity in
the Bible. The very word “trinity” belongs to systematic theology.
However, raw materials of a trinitarian theology are to be found in the
Bible, for the Bible clearly teaches that the Father is God, that the
Son is God, and that the Holy Spirit is God. Thus the Bible demands a
trinitarian theology; but the Bible does not itself reflect on the
problem of how there can be three persons in a single Godhead. The ask
of biblical theology is to discover what the various stages of
redemptive history teach about God and Christ and the Holy Spirit and to
go as far as the Bible itself goes. Systematic theology then takes the
end product of biblical theology and asks additional theological and
philosophical questions, going farther than the Bible goes in the
formulation and expression of theology, yet remaining true to the
biblical data.

A third difference is that systematic theology will often organize its
materials around some single principle or scheme that may reflect the
problems facing men at the time. Many diverse systems of theology appeal
to the Bible, e.g., Calvinistic theology, Arminian theology,
dispensational theology, and even dialectical and existential theology.
Thus systematic theology deals with many questions that do not come
within the purview of the biblical theologian, who is concerned with the
theology of the Bible seen in its own biblical and historical setting.

IV. Historical

That revelation has occurred in historical events and that biblical
theology must therefore be primarily historical in character and
arrangement require further exposition; for the historical nature of
revelation is the modern “scandal” of the gospel. Since G. E. Lessing,
the modern mind has found it difficult to accept the view that eternal
absolute truth can be embodied in the particular, contingent events of
history. History by definition involves relativity, particularity,
caprice, arbitrariness, whereas revelation must convey the universal,
the absolute, the ultimate. History has been called “an abyss in which
Christianity has been swallowed up quite against its will.”

Further, God and history belong to who different categories. History is
concerned with the observable, the natural, the human, while God belongs
to the invisible, the supernatural, the spiritual. The historian, as a
historian, feels that he can make no statement about God. He can observe
what people have thought about God, but he does not feel he can observe
God or the acts of God, because God stands above and outside human
history and belongs to the realm of faith and spiritual experience.

It is for this reason that scholars like Bultmann have taken offense. It
is to them incredible that God could act in history in the terms in
which the Bible represents it. To Bultmann, “mythology” included not
only ideas of angels, demons, heaven, hell, miracles, etc., but also
every attempt to objectify God and His acts, to find the acts of God
within the phenomena of world history. Bultmann thought that “we must
speak of God as acting only in the sense that He acts with me here and
now.” For Bultmann, by definition, there could be no *Heilsgeschichte*
in the sense in which we have described it; and he tried to reinterpret
the meaning of God’s redemptive activity in terms of personal human
existence. He did this, however, only at the sacrifice of the gospel
itself, which proclaims a redemptive history of which Christ is the end
term. The fundamental issue at stake is not the nature of history but
the nature of God: whether God is indeed Lord of history or stands quite
apart from history.

A second difficulty must be faced. Not only is the Bible conscious that
God has been redemptively active in one stream of history in a way in
which He is not active in general history; it also is conscious that, at
given points, God has acted in history in ways that transcend ordinary
historical experience.

This can best be appreciated by a brief consideration of the nature of
“history.” The layman thinks of history as the totality of past events;
but a moment’s reflection will show that we have no access whatever to
vast areas of past human experience. There can be no history unless
there are documents — records of past events. Ancient records, however,
do not themselves constitute “history.” The writings of Herodotus are a
sort of history, but they are replete with fancy, imagination, and
errors. “History” therefore must be understood as the modern historian’s
reconstruction of the events of the past by the critical use of ancient
documents. In such a reconstruction there must be accepted critical
procedures, “ground rules.” When one reads in Greek literature of the
activities of the gods among men, he understands this not as history but
as mythology.

Many historians feel that this same critical definition of history must
be applied to the study of biblical history. This, however, runs head-on
into a difficult problem. Frequently the Bible represents God as acting
through “ordinary” historical events. The events that brought Israel
into captivity in Babylon and later effected their restoration to
Palestine were “natural” historical events. God used the Chaldeans to
bring defeat to the chosen people and banishment from the land; but it
was nonetheless a divine judgment. He also used Cyrus, “his anointed”
(Isa. 45:1), as an agent to accomplish the divine purpose of restoring
His people to the land. In such events, God was active in history,
carrying forward His redemptive purposes through the nation Israel. This
one stream of history carries a meaning that sets it apart from all
others in the river of history. Within the historical events, the eye of
faith can see the working of God.

Frequently, however, God is represented as acting in unusual ways.
Sometimes the revelatory event assumes a character that the modern
secular historian calls unhistorical. The God who reveals Himself in
redemptive history is both Lord of creation and Lord of history, and He
is therefore able not only to shape the course of ordinary historical
events but to act directly in ways that transcend usual historical
experience.

The most vivid illustration of this is the resurrection of Christ. From
the point of view of scientific historical criticism, the Resurrection
cannot be “historical,” for it is an event uncaused by any other
historical event, and it is without analogy. Indeed God, and God alone,
is the cause of the Resurrection. It is therefore causally unrelated to
other historical events. Furthermore, nothing like it ever occurred
elsewhere. The resurrection of Christ is not the restoration of a dead
man to earthly, mortal life but the emergence of a new order of life —
resurrection life. If the biblical record is correct, there can be
neither “historical” explanation nor analogy of Christ’s resurrection.
In fact, its very offense to scientific historical criticism is a kind
of negative support for its supernatural character.

The underlying question is a theological one. Is such an alleged
supernatural event consistent with the character and objectives of the
God who has revealed Himself in holy history? Is history as such the
measure of all things, or is the living God indeed the Lord of history?
The biblical answer to this question is not in doubt. The Lord of
history is transcendent over history yet not aloof from history. He is
therefore able to bring to pass in time and space events that are
genuine events yet that are “suprahistorical” in their character. This
merely means that such revelatory events are not produced by history but
that the Lord of history, who stands above history, acts within history
for the redemption of historical creatures. The redemption of history
must come from outside of history — from God Himself. This does not mean
the abandonment of the historical method in studying the Bible. It does
mean that at certain points the character of God’s acts is such that it
transcends the historical method, and that the historian qua historian
can say nothing about them.

V. Revelation

That revelation has occurred in history leads to the important fact that
revelation is progressive. We have said that *theology* must be
concerned with that which is normative and permanently true; but this
statement does not imply a static view of revelation. Not all truth was
given at one time; and the truth was often conveyed in vehicles that
were temporary and transitory. Animal sacrifice and circumcision
embodied a permanent theological truth but were not themselves
permanent. God in the OT shows Himself to be a God of wrath in ways that
violate our modern sense of humanity. That God is a God of wrath is a
permanent theological truth emphasized in the NT; but the historical
forms in which this truth is conveyed to Israel are temporary.

Because revelation is progressive, the OT cannot be finally understood
by itself but must be interpreted in light of the completed revelation
in Christ and the NT. The OT is itself conscious of being incomplete and
of looking forward to something beyond itself to provide its
fulfillment. While God rules over Israel as His people, the OT
constantly looks forward to a day when the kingdom of God will be
brought to consummation and God’s rule over His people will be realized
in its perfection. The institution of the written law is recognized as
inadequate, for the prophets looked forward to a day when the law shall
be written on the hearts of men (Jer. 31:33). The OT cult is not an end
in itself, for the prophets anticipated a day when a true cleansing of
the heart will be provided (Zec. 13:1; Ezk. 36:35). Even the OT covenant
is not the final form of God’s relationship with His people; a new
covenant will be required which will accomplish what the old covenant
could not do (Jer. 31:31). All these elements in which the theology of
the OT looks beyond itself are fulfilled in the NT.

While there is progression in revelation, which comes to fulfillment in
Christ, the OT must nevertheless be interpreted in its own historical
setting. The meaning of the OT covenant must be interpreted in terms of
OT history, not in terms of the Greek idea of a last will and testament,
which is made use of by the book of Hebrews (G. B. Payne).

Progressive revelation explains the abolition of the OT cult in the NT,
the discontinuance of circumcision, the substitution of the Church for a
nation as the people of God, the transition from law to grace. Each
stage of biblical theology must first be interpreted in terms of its own
historical setting and then the difference discovered between the
permanent and the contingent elements in every stage of revelation. This
is even true of the NT and the revelation in Christ, for the NT
repeatedly teaches that the revelation accomplished in the historical
Jesus is yet to assume a different form at the eschatological
consummation. Then, that which has accomplished as a mystery in Christ
will be publicly displayed to all the world. “Christ” is the fulfillment
of revelation, but the term “Christ” includes His parousia and the
establishment of the kingdom in glory, as well as His life, death, and
resurrection. Revelation still awaits its final consummation.

It simply is not true that the acceptance of the Bible’s claim to
inspiration means that everything in the Bible must be viewed on the
same level of truth (H. Gunkel, RGG [2nd ed], I, col 1090). Inspiration
means that the Scriptures are a faithful record of redemptive history
and an authoritative interpretation of the revelatory meaning of this
history. It does not mean that all Scripture is of the same theological
value. It leaves room for progressive revelation and historical
interpretation.

VI. Hermeneutics

We have taken the stance that biblical theology is primarily a
descriptive historical discipline, but that for the evangelical
Christian, who believes that the Bible is the Word of God written, the
findings of biblical theology are also of a normative character. This
obviously does not mean a one-to-one equivalence. The writings of the NT
are historically and culturally conditioned and therefore must be
*interpreted*. No one in our western culture is troubled by the problem
of meats offered to idols. Most modern Christians do not apply
*literally* what Peter says about female dress (1 Pet. 3:3f). Paul’s
instruction about the role of women is culturally conditioned. In fact,
if Paul is taken literally, the evangelical Christian can have little
interest in questions of social ethics. Paul explicitly commands his
reader to “remain in the state in which he was called” (1 Cor. 7:20),
even in slavery. Paul seems to regard all social institutions — whether
of slavery or the family — as belonging to “the form of this world
[which] is passing away” (1 Cor. 7:31). In such instances, the law of
love must take precedence over the letter of Scripture. Scripture must
be seen as a whole, not as a collection of legalistic proof texts.

Obviously this raises difficult questions, for equally devout and
learned men will come to different conclusions as to the *meaning* of
Scripture for us. Therefore it must be remembered that while the
inspired Scripture is the only infallible rule of faith and practice,
interpretation is a human discipline, which must be carried out in
humility and in love.

VII. Unity and Diversity

The study of biblical theology must bring out both the diversity and
unity in the various portions of the Bible. Authors of several recent
works in the field, e.g., F. C. Grant, E. Stauffer, A. Richardson, use
the thematic or topical approach, which obscures the rich diversity of
the NT. In this respect the historical approach, which studies NT
theology in the Synoptics, John, Primitive Church, Paul, etc., is to be
preferred.

An older approach to biblical theology was content to study the many
diverse theologies in the Bible, but the modern approach seeks for some
center of unity. The unity may be found in the stream of redemptive
history. The Bible reveals one and the same God acting in the course of
redemptive history to fulfil His purpose of salvation. “That which
brings together indivisibly the two realms of the Old and New Testament
— different in externals though they may be — is the irruption of the
Kingship of God into this world and its establishment here” (Eichrodt).
This is another way of describing the redemptive activity of God in
history, which has as its goal the final establishment of the kingdom of
God. There is therefore a common purpose running throughout the
diversity of the Bible. There are vast differences between a small
nomadic patriarchal family, a nation with a king, temple, and priestly
cult, and the loose fellowship of believers, largely gentile, who
welcomed Paul in Rome. Underlying all the diversity is a single
redemptive purpose which unfolds itself throughout the history of Israel
and of the Church.

VIII. Methodology

This leads to the question of the method of structuring biblical
theology. Should the approach be historical or topical? The older
approach used a severe historical method because it found contradictory
theologies, which of necessity must be analyzed separately. The modern
method tends to use the topical approach, and to study the theology of
both Testaments in a topical manner to bring out the basic unity.

Either method is valid; but when the topical approach is used, the
historical development involved in the progressive revelation of the
several theological concepts must be included. Because the historical
period covered by the OT writings is so long and the historical problems
are so difficult, it may be convenient to employ the topical method in
studying the OT to seek out the underlying concepts of God, man, and
salvation. The NT writings, however, have a much more explicit
theological content than the OT, and the diversity is more patent.
Therefore, lest the variety of interpretation of the meaning of Christ
and His work be obscured, it may be preferable to structure NT theology
historically along the traditional divisions of Synoptic, Johannine,
Primitive Christian, Pauline, etc. In either method, biblical theology
must preserve the diversity while showing how the diverse theologies
illustrate the central theme of the divine redemptive purpose.

IX. Goal

If biblical theology is the study of the meaning of God’s redeeming acts
in *Heilsgeschichte*, and if the purpose of God’s redeeming acts is to
disclose Himself to men and thus to bring men to Himself, it follows
that biblical theology is far more than an intellectual discipline; it
has a spiritual goal, namely, personal knowledge of God. When biblical
theology becomes only an intellectual discipline, it is not really
theology but the study of the history of religion. In other words,
biblical theology cannot be the subject of purely objective neutral
study. The historian can observe what the ancients, both in the OT and
the NT, thought about God and God’s redeeming works; but when the
historian takes his task seriously, he “must state that the New
Testament demands what he, as an historian, may not give, a judgment of
the highest possible urgency for all men and women” (E. C. Hoskyns and
F. N. Davey, *The Riddle of the NT* [1931], p. 263) — a decision for or
against God in His self-revelation. This means that faith cannot be
compartmentalized and made aloof from historical study; it means also
that historical study must be carried on from the perspective of faith.
The historian qua historian cannot talk about God; but the biblical
student must be both historian and theologian, who recognizes God’s
redemptive acts in history, who hears the call of God in the
interpretative Word of God, and who responds to God’s self-revelation in
faith. Biblical theology therefore has as its goal the description and
the interpretation of God’s redeeming acts in history, whereby God
desires to bring men into fellowship with Himself. “Objectivity” means
neutrality, noncommitment; biblical theology demands commitment, faith,
or it is not true to its essential character. “In fact, New Testament
scholarship fails in its task when the scholar precisely in his capacity
as scholar thinks he has to exclude this claim” (W. G. Kümmel, *The NT:
The History of the Investigation of its Problems* [Engtr 1972], p. 405).

G. E. Ladd

CRITICISM

[Gk *hē kritiké̄ téchnē*–‘the discriminatory art’]. A comprehensive term
embodying a number of techniques employed in the study of (among other
things) written documents in order to establish as far as possible their
original text, the literary categories to which they are to be assigned,
their sources, mode of composition, date, style, authorship, purpose,
and so forth. The techniques applicable to literature in general are of
great service in the study of the Bible; this article is concerned with
*biblical* criticism. Biblical criticism embraces various critical
disciplines, notably textual criticism, literary and historical
criticism, and form criticism.

I. Textual Criticism

The function of textual criticism is the restoration of the original
wording of a document when alterations have been introduced
(deliberately or inadvertently) in the course of copying and recopying.
Before the invention of printing, when each copy of a document had to be
written out separately by hand, scribal errors were especially apt to
occur. If the autograph or original document survives, scribal errors
can be corrected by reference to it. But if it has long since
disappeared (as has happened with all the original exemplars of biblical
books), and the surviving copies differ from one another here and there,
the original wording can be determined only by careful comparative study
of these copies. The scribal habits of individual copyists, and the
remoteness or proximity of individual MSS to the original (which is not
simply a question of their relative dates), must be investigated. The
main types of scribal error must be classified — those arising in
copying by sight being quite different from those which arise in copying
by dictation. Expertness in textual criticism comes only by long study
and practice, although some scholars do seem to be gifted with a rare
instinct for divining the original text even when the available copies
are almost hopelessly corrupt.

Textual criticism plays a very important part in biblical study, and is
an indispensable handmaid to biblical theology, for biblical theology
must depend on sound exegesis, and sound exegesis in turn must be based
on a reliable text. Because of this basic character of textual criticism
it was formerly called “lower criticism,” since it represents the lower,
foundational courses in the structure of critical study. (For further
details *see* Text and Manuscripts of the NT; Text and Manuscripts of
the OT.)

II. Literary and Historical Criticism

***A. Higher Criticism***If textual criticism represents the lower
courses of the critical structure, the upper courses consist of those
critical studies that can best be pursued when a trustworthy text is
established — those which used to be lumped together under the
designation “higher criticism.” This designation appears to have been
first used in the context of biblical study by J. G. Eichhorn, in the
preface to the 2nd edition of his OT introduction (1787): “I have been
obliged to bestow the greatest amount of labour on a hitherto entirely
unworked field, the investigation of the inner constitution of the
individual books of the Old Testament by the aid of the higher criticism
— a new name to no humanist.” By the “inner constitution” he meant the
structure of a book, including a study of the sources on which the
author drew and the way in which he used or combined them. This last
aspect of the study is commonly called “source criticism.”

The structure of a biblical book is sometimes illuminated by internal
evidence. From the narrative of Jer. 36, for example, we learn of the
first edition of the collected oracles of Jeremiah, dictated to his
secretary Baruch in 604 b.c., containing his spoken ministry of the past
twenty-three years. This edition, which consisted of a single copy, was
almost immediately destroyed by King Jehoiakim, but it was quickly
followed by a second and enlarged edition (Jer. 36:32). Even the second
edition was by no means the final one, for Jeremiah continued to
prophesy for nearly twenty years after that. We have two extant editions
of the posthumous collection of his oracles, together with some
biographical and other historical material — a longer one preserved in
the MT and a shorter one in the LXX. Fragmentary Hebrew copies have been
found at Qumrân representing both the longer and the shorter editions.

The structure of many other books of the Bible is not so apparent from
the record, and a greater measure of conjecture is necessary for
reconstructing the history of their composition.

It is plain, too, from the book of Jeremiah that the author or editor of
a prophetical book need not be the prophet himself; in this case the
oracles are Jeremiah’s but it is to Baruch, who committed them to
writing, that we should probably ascribe the authorship of the narrative
sections of the book and the publication of the whole.

When a book actually claims to be written by a specific person, that is
substantial prima-facie evidence for its authorship. In some categories
of literature, however, such as wisdom books and apocalypses, a name may
sometimes (but not invariably) be employed for dramatic purposes or the
like: a good canonical example is Ecclesiastes, a postexilic series of
meditations put into the mouth of Solomon. (Two examples in the
Apocrypha are Wisdom of Solomon and the apocalyptic 2 Esdras, ascribed
respectively to Solomon and Ezra.) Again, in Jewish schools a disciple
was apt to ascribe his dicta to his master, on the ground that
“whosoever says a thing in the name of him who said it brings salvation
to the world” (Mish *Pirke Aboth* vi.6). It is noteworthy that a number
of the most important books of the Bible are, strictly speaking,
anonymous; this is so, for example, with the four Gospels and Acts.
Their authorship has to be determined as far as possible by a
consideration of relevant internal and external evidence.

***B. Source Criticism***Source criticism can be pursued most
confidently when a documentary source has survived alongside the later
work that has drawn upon it. In the OT the most obvious example of this
is seen in the books of Chronicles. The books of Samuel and Kings were
the Chronicler’s principal sources, and as they have survived we can
make rather definite statements about his use of them. (It is specially
interesting that an early MS of Samuel found at *Qumrân*,
*4QSam*<sup>*a*</sup>, exhibits a type of text closer to that which the
Chronicler appears to have used than to the MT.) In the NT the Gospel of
Mark is generally recognized to have been a major source of the other
two Synoptic Gospels, and since the source survives alongside the works
that drew upon it we can without difficulty study the use Matthew and
Luke made of Mark.

Where, on the other hand, the sources do not survive, source criticism
is a much more uncertain and speculative business. In the 2nd cent a.d.
Tatian unstitched the contents of our four Gospels and rewove them (with
minor additions from another document) into one continuous narrative,
the *Diatessaron*. If the four separate Gospels had disappeared
completely and only the *Diatessaron* survived, it would be impossible
to reconstruct the four in anything like their original form. It would
be clear that the *Diatessaron* was a composite work, and it would be
relatively easy to isolate most of the Johannine element in it, but to
disentangle the three Synoptic records would defy the keenest critical
skill, not least because of the large amount of material common to the
three. It might be possible in some degree to distinguish Matthaean from
Lukan material, but the very existence of Mark’s record would probably
be unsuspected. Exponents of the four-document analysis of the
Pentateuch have at times aptly compared their task of distinguishing
these four lost documents to the hypothetical task of reconstituting the
four Gospels on the basis of the *Diatessaron*.

***C. Criteria for Dating***Structure, date, and authorship are the
three principal concerns of the “higher criticism.” The criteria for
dating an ancient work are partly external and partly internal. If a
work is quoted or alluded to in a reliably dated document, we conclude
that it is earlier than that document. The work may mention persons or
events whose date is clearly indicated by other documents; thus some
parts of the OT can be dated from their reference to people or incidents
mentioned in Mesopotamian or Egyptian historical records. Contemporary
Assyrian records enable us to date the oracles of Isaiah at various
points within the forty years or so preceding 701 b.c., the year of
Sennacherib’s invasion of Judah.

A work may date itself; thus some prophetical books of the OT name the
actual years in which successive oracles were uttered or the reign or
reigns within which certain prophets prophesied (cf. Isa. 1:1; Hos. 1:1;
Am. 1:1; Mic. 1:1; Zeph. 1:1; Hag. 1:1, etc.; Zec. 1:1, etc.). As the
history of the ancient Near East is reconstructed in ever more precise
detail, it becomes increasingly possible to put the various books of the
OT into their appropriate historical settings.

The predictive element in biblical prophecy necessitates special dating
criteria for the prophetical oracles. To interpret all fulfilled
predictions as prophecies made after the event is a completely
uncritical procedure. A genuine piece of predictive prophecy will be
dated before the events it predicts but after those which it records or
presupposes as having taken place. Thus, if Nahum’s oracle is a
prediction of the fall of Nineveh (as seems probable) and not simply an
outburst of exultation over its fall, it will be dated before the
destruction of the city in 612 b.c. but after the fall of Thebes in 663
b.c., to which it refers as a past event (Nah. 3:8f). Again, the oracles
of Jeremiah and Ezekiel must be dated to the years preceding, during,
and immediately following the Chaldean siege of Jerusalem in 588–587
b.c., since they record the happenings of those years as historical
events, but before the return from exile and reconstitution of the
Jewish commonwealth (537 b.c. and the years following), which they
definitely predict.

***D. OT Criticism***The central issue in OT criticism is that of the
structure of the Pentateuch.

***1. Early Period***Discussions of the authorship of the Pentateuch
took place among the Jewish rabbis, but the main question debated by
them was whether the account of Moses’ death (Dt. 34:5–12) was written
by Moses himself, which was the opinion of Rabbi Simeon (“Moses wrote
with tears”), or by Joshua — a view ascribed to Rabbi Judah or,
according to others, Rabbi Nehemiah (cf. T.B. *Baba Bathra* 15a;
*Menahoth* 30a). An interesting anticipation of a phase of later
pentateuchal criticism is the remark ascribed to Ben Azzai that where
sacrifices are mentioned in the Pentateuch God is always called Yahweh
(Midrash Siphre on Numbers, 293).

Later Jewish scholars made further critical observations. Isaac ben
Yasos (*Yiṣḥaqi*) of Toledo (d 1057) pointed out that the list of kings
of Edom in Gen. 36:31ff must be later than the rise of the Hebrew
monarchy, and dated it not earlier than Jehoshaphat’s reign; he
identified Hadad of Gen. 36:35 with Hadad of 1 K. 11:14.

Abraham ibn Ezra (d 1167), commenting on Dt. 1:1, where Moses is said to
have spoken to Israel “beyond the Jordan,” adds that his readers will
learn the truth if they understand “the mystery of the twelve [probably
the twelve verses of Dt. 34], ‘and Moses wrote’ [Ex. 24:4; Nu. 33:2; Dt.
31:9, 22], ‘and the Canaanite was then in the land’ [Gen. 12:6, a verse
that he says “contains a mystery, concerning which the prudent man will
hold his peace”], ‘in the mount of the Lord it shall be seen’ [Gen.
22:14], ‘and his [Og’s] bed was a bedstead of iron’ [Dt. 3:11].” What he
is hinting at is that these passages are later than Moses.

Isaac Abrabanel (d 1509) adumbrated the theory that the books as they
stand were later compilations out of earlier archives.

Christian scholars were making similar observations throughout these
centuries. Jerome (d 420) discerned that the law book discovered in the
Jerusalem temple in Josiah’s day (2 K. 22:8) was Deuteronomy (comm on
Ezk. 1:1). Commenting on the phrase “unto this day” (Gen. 35:20; Dt.
34:6) he says: “We must certainly take ‘this day’ to refer to the time
when the history was composed; whether you take it as said by Moses, the
author of the Pentateuch, or by Ezra, the restorer of Moses’ work, I
have no objection” (*Against Helvidius* 7). But he vigorously defended
the authenticity of Daniel against Porphyry the Neoplatonist who, mainly
on the evidence of ch 11, dated it in the time of Antiochus Epiphanes (a
dating revived in 1726 by Anthony Collins in his *Literal Scheme of
Prophecy Considered*).

Hugh of St. Victor (1096–1141) thought that the list of kings of Edom in
Gen. 36:21ff was inserted by Ezra, “for it seems frivolous to say that
Moses narrated it by the spirit of prophecy” (PL, CLXXV, 36 d).

Luther drew similar inferences from Gen. 36:31. His contemporary Andreas
Bodenstein von Carlstadt (1480–1541) said that no sane person would
suppose that Moses recorded his own death, and since the style of Dt. 34
was that of the Pentateuch generally, the Pentateuch in its completed
form was not the work of Moses, but was earlier than Josiah’s time.

Other biblical scholars of the 16th and 17th cents, both Roman and
Reformed, made further contributions to the question, as did also Thomas
Hobbes in England (*Leviathan* [1650]) and Benedict Spinoza in the
Netherlands (*Tractatus Theologicopoliticus* [1671]). But thus far
pentateuchal criticism was concerned with detecting the presence of
post-Mosaic elements in the Pentateuch, the conclusion being that the
tradition of Mosaic authorship could not be maintained without
qualification.

***2. Old Documentary Hypothesis***R. Simon, priest of the Oratory,
argued in *Histoire critique de l’AT* (1682) that the duplication of
certain narratives in the Pentateuch (e.g., the Creation and Flood
narratives), accompanied by diversity of style, pointed to diversity of
authorship.

H. B. Witter (*Iura Israelitarum in Palestina* [1711]) pointed out that
the duplicate accounts of the Creation were marked by the use of two
different divine names, ’Elohim and Yahweh. This last point was taken up
by the French court physician Jean Astruc, who used it as a criterion to
distinguish two sources (A and B) throughout Genesis — pre-Mosaic
sources on which Moses drew (*Conjectures sur les mémoires originaux
dont il paroît que Moyse s’est most servi pour composer le livre du
Genèse* [1753]).

Astruc’s work was epoch-making, and marks the beginning of the
continuous history of modern pentateuchal criticism. His criterion was a
limited one, which could not be applied to the whole Pentateuch, since
it fails after Ex. 6. The real question raised by the use of the divine
names in Gen. 1-Ex. 6 was later seen to be the question of *when* the
name Yahweh is represented as first coming into use — whether in
primeval times (Gen. 4:26) or in the days of Moses (Ex. 3:14f; 6:2f).
But Astruc introduced on this basis the rudiments of a documentary
analysis of the Pentateuch whose influence remains to this day. His
general results were adopted by J. G. Eichhorn (*Einleitung in das AT*
[1780]), who continued Simon’s investigation into stylistic diversities
in Genesis and found that they corresponded largely to Astruc’s
analysis.

K. D. Ilgen, in *Die Urkunden des jerusalemischen Tempelarchivs in ihrer
Urgestalt* (1798), wrote out the documents from which he believed
Genesis was compiled, and distinguished two unrelated documents that
used the divine name ’Elohim.

***3. Fragmentary Hypothesis***The fragmentary hypothesis, propounded by
a Scots Roman Catholic priest, Alexander Geddes (*Biblia Sacra*
[1792–1797]; *Critical Remarks* [1800]), envisaged a much greater number
of sources. The Pentateuch, he argued, was not in its present form the
work of Moses; together with Joshua, it was written, probably at
Jerusalem, not before David nor after Hezekiah but preferably under
Solomon, and it was compiled from a large number of short documents or
fragments. There is an obvious similarity between Geddes’ hypothesis and
F.A. Wolf’s contemporary view about the composition of the Homeric epics
(*Prolegomena ad Homerum* [1795]). Geddes’ hypothesis was introduced
into Germany by J. S. Vater in his three-volume commentary on the
Pentateuch (1802–1805).

Vater’s work greatly influenced W. M. L. de Wette. In his *Beiträge zur
Einl. in das AT* (1806–1807), de Wette accepted Vater’s views, except
that he envisaged one fundamental Elohist document in Genesis which was
expanded by the addition of other “fragment.” This fundamental document
was continued in the middle books of the Pentateuch — “the epos of the
Hebrew theocracy,” into which collections of laws, etc., were inserted
from time to time.

***4. Supplementary Hypothesis***De Wette thus marks the transition from
the fragmentary to the supplementary hypothesis — so called because it
postulates one main document supplemented by others. But his chief
importance in biblical criticism lies in his work on Deuteronomy. At the
age of twenty-five he published his *Dissertatio qua Deuteronomium a
prioribus Pentateuchi libris diversum alius cuiusdam recentioris
auctoris opus esse demonstratur* (1805), in which, accepting Jerome’s
identification of Josiah’s law book (2 K. 22:8ff) with Deuteronomy, he
went on to date the composition of the book in that period (7th cent
b.c.).

The chief name associated with the supplementary hypothesis is that of
Heinrich Ewald. In his *History of Israel* (Engtr 1867–1883) Ewald
identified the foundation document (*Grundschrift*) with the “Book of
Origins,” so called because it was marked by the recurring formula
“These are the origins” (Heb *tôl*<sup>*e*</sup>*ḏôṯ*, RV
“generations”). Into this, he held, other (later) documents were fitted.

The foundation-document was also characterized (in Genesis and the early
chapters of Exodus) by the use of ’Elohim for the divine name. But
exactly a century after Astiruc’s work, Herman Hupfeld, in *Die Quellen
der Genesis und die Art ihrer Zusammensetzung* (1857), distinguished two
documents in Genesis that used the name ’Elohim. One of these was the
primary “Book of Origins,” which formed the framework of the whole
Pentateuch; the other he called “the later Elohist.” In addition two
other documents had already been isolated in the Pentateuch — the
Yahwist (so called from the use of the name Yahweh) and the
Deuteronomist. These four were placed in that order, and indicated by
the letters E<sup>1</sup> E<sup>2</sup> J D. The four-document analysis
thus propounded by Hupfeld has been widely adopted in pentateuchal
criticism ever since.

***5. Development Hypothesis***Thus far the analysis of the Pentateuch
was conducted in terms of literary criticism alone. A new stage now
appears in which literary criticism was supplemented by historical
(especially religious-historical) criticism. This stage saw the
emergence of the development hypothesis, in which the laws and
institutions of the Pentateuch, classified in three distinct codes, are
correlated with three distinct periods of Israel’s religious
development.

The development hypothesis took over the four-document hypothesis, but
treated the fundamental document (E<sup>1</sup>) as the latest, not the
earliest, of the four. Indeed, this had been done as early as 1834 by E.
G. Reuss in lectures at Strasbourg, although he did not publish his
views until 1879, in *L’Histoire sainte et la loi*. In 1835 W. Vatke
(*Die Religion des AT nach den kanonischen Büchern entwickelt*) and J.
F. L. George (*Die älteren jüdischen Feste mit einer Kritik der
Gesetzgebung des Pentateuchs*) argued that Israel’s religions
development was gradual and that the Levitical legislation (i.e., the
laws of Leviticus and kindred sections of Exodus and Numbers) was not
only post-Mosaic but later than Deuteronomy, belonging, in fact, to the
exilic period. Vatke and George were both greatly influenced by Hegel’s
philosophy of history, with its pattern of thesis, antithesis, and
synthesis; Vatke in turn exercised considerable influence on Julius
Wellhausen.

K. H. Graf, in *Die geschichtlichen Bücher des AT* (1866), dated much of
the Levitical legislation to the age of Ezra (5th cent b.c.) He ascribed
the greater part of Lev. 17–26 to Ezekiel, thus largely anticipating
August Klostermann (“Beiträge zur Entstehungsgeschichte des Pentateuchs:
Ezechiel und das Heiligkeitsgesetz,” *Zeitschrift für Lutherische
Theologie und Kirche*, 38 [1877], 401ff), who marked off these chapters
as a separate law code, the “Law of Holiness” (H). It was objected to
Graf’s late dating of the Levitical legislation that, on
literary-critical grounds, this legislation could not be divorced from
the narrative of the foundation-document (E<sup>1</sup>), and must
therefore be dated early. Graf replied that since the Levitical
legislation was later than anything else in the Pentateuch, therefore
the whole of E<sup>1</sup> must be dated late. E<sup>1</sup>, as
containing the “priestly” legislation, came later to be known as P, and
E<sup>2</sup> accordingly was thenceforth designated simply as E.

Graf’s thesis was strengthened by the Dutch scholar Abraham Kuenen
(*Religion of Israel*) [Engtr 1874–1875]; *Historich-critisch Onderzoek
naar het Ontstaan en de Verzameling van de Boeken des Ouden Verbonds*
[2nd ed 1885], pt. 1 of which appeared in English as *An
Historico-Critical Enquiry into the Origin and Composition of the
Hexateuch* [1886]).

But the long regnancy of the development hypothesis is due mainly to
Julius Wellhausen. He related the order JE-D-P to the religious history
of Israel, paying special attention to the laws regarding sanctuary and
sacrifice. “I differ from Graf chiefly in this,” he wrote, “that I
always go back to the centralisation of the cultus and deduce from it
the particular divergences” (*History* *of Israel* [Engtr 1885], p.
368). Following Vatke’s Hegelian pattern, he distinguished the following
stages in the history of Israelite worship:

**(1)*****Thesis*****.** JE corresponds to the period of the settlement
and early monarchy, when there were many local sanctuaries at which
sacrifice was offered by local priesthoods or chosen members of local
families.

**(2)*****Antithesis*****.** The eighth-century prophets attacked the
whole institution of sanctuary and sacrifice as an obstacle in the path
of true ethical religion.

**(3)*****Synthesis*** of “cultic” and “prophetic” positions.

**(a)*****Preexilic*****.** The Deuteronomic law code prescribed the
concentration of national worship at one sanctuary only; the Levitical
priests who served the local sanctuaries (suppressed in Josiah’s
reformation, 621 b.c.) were to be attached to the staff of the central
sanctuary.

**(b)*****Postexilic*****.**The Priestly law code, which takes for
granted a single central sanctuary, makes much more elaborate cultic
regulations. The priesthood is restricted to the family of Aaron; the
supremacy of the high priest reflects the postexilic situation in which
he was head of the Judean temple-state. The Levitical priests of the
older local sanctuaries are depressed to the status of temple servants
(Levites) with no sacerdotal functions.

The Graf-Wellhausen development hypothesis speedily attained a dominant
position because of the apparent success with which it correlated the
main strata of the Pentateuch with successive phases of Israel’s
religious history. But it was constructed on the basis of an excessively
doctrinaire philosophy of history, and at a time when hardly any
external evidence for the historical setting of the religion of Israel
and her neighbors before the 9th cent b.c. was available.

The increasing evidence brought to light by archeological research, and
most of all the discovery and decipherment from 1929 onward of the
Ugaritic texts, with their wealth of information about Canaanite myth
and ritual, have revolutionized the situation. While Wellhausen’s
documentary analysis of the Pentateuch and his relative order of the
documents (JE-D-P) are still widely adopted as a convenient framework,
his reconstruction of the religious history of Israel has gone by the
board, and many would agree with H. H. Rowley: “A mere concentration on
the acknowledged difficulties of the Graf-Wellhausen view, and then on a
selection of points that may seem to give support to a rival view, will
not do. For none of the rival views can accommodate so many of the
facts, or can escape far more difficulties than the view it seeks to
replace. Yet having said this, it remains true that the Graf-Wellhausen
view is only a working hypothesis, which can be abandoned with alacrity
when a more satisfying view is found, but cannot with profit be
abandoned until then” (*Growth of the OT* [1950], p. 46).

***6. Since Wellhausen***Many others, however, reject the
Graf-Wellhausen scheme even as a working hypothesis. Even in its heyday
there were some who refused it completely and maintained the substantial
Mosaicity of the Pentateuch, like W. H. Green (*Higher Criticism of the
Pentateuch* [1895]), J. Orr (*Problem of the OT* [1900]), and A. H. Finn
(*Unity of the Pentateuch* [1917]); more recently, similar positions
have been defended by O. T. Allis (*The Five Books of Moses* [1943]), E.
J. Young (*intro to the OT* [repr [1963]), and G. C. Aalders (*A Short
intro to the Pentateuch* [1949]). Of these three Aalders allows a larger
post-Mosaic element than the others do; he looks on David’s capture of
Jerusalem in the seventh year of his reign as the *terminus ad quem* for
the final redaction of the Pentateuch.

Others have moved in the opposite direction and posited further
documentary sources, subdividing J (e,g., O. Eissfeldt,
*Hexateuchsynopse* [1922]; J. Morgenstern, HUCA, 4 [1927], 1ff; R. H.
Pfeiffer, ZAW, 48 [1930], 66ff) or P (e.g., G. von Rad, *Die
Priesterschrift im Hexateuch* [1934]). The seventh-century date of the
Deuteronomic Code, the linchpin of the Graf-Wellhausen scheme, has been
called in question — some making it postexilic, like G. Hölscher (ZAW,
40 [1920], 161ff), R. H. Kennett (*Deuteronomy and the Decalogue*
[1920]), and J. N. Schofield (*Studies in History and Religion*, ed E.
A. Payne [1942], pp. 44ff), while others such as T. Oestreicher (*Das
deuteronomische Grundgesetz* [1923]) and A. C. Welch (*The Code of
Deuteronomy* [1924]) have pushed it back to the early monarchy; and E.
Robertson (*The OT Problem* [1950]) dates it in Samuel’s time. The very
existence of one or another of the four documents has been doubted: M.
Löhr (*Untersuchungen zum Hexateuchproblem* [1924]) denied that there
was ever an independent source P, and P. Volz and W. Rudolph (*Der
Elohist als Erzähler* [1933]) have argued that the hypothesis of a
separate E narrative represented a false turning in pentateuchal
criticism.

Unaided documentary analysis has plainly reached the limit of its
powers. Other critical approaches have been made in recent years to
supplement the limitations of source criticism. The cultic and
liturgical influence on the grouping of the material has been
emphasized; e.g., Gen. 1:1–2:4a has been looked upon as a liturgical
text for the Hebrew New Year’s Festival (cf. S. H. Hooke, *In the
Beginning* [1947], p. 36); the whole complex of Ex. 1–15 has been
regarded as a liturgical text or “cult legend” of the Passover, which
has not been compiled out of originally distinct documents but has been
modified and added to in the course of time (ILC, III–IV, 726ff).

The “traditio-historical” school of Uppsala has presented a radical
challenge of a different kind to the basic principles of classical OT
criticism; it lays great emphasis on the part played by oral tradition,
and on the great reliability of such tradition. The leading exponent of
this “traditio-historical” criticism, I. Engell, distinguishes in the
Torah and the Former Prophets two collections — the Tetrateuch
(Genesis-Numbers) and the Deuteronomic history (Deuteronomy-2 Kings) —
which originally had no connection with one another (*Gamla
Testamentet*: *En traditionshistorisk inledning* [1945], I).

The reconstruction of the early history of Israel, based on an
evaluation of the OT texts in the light of archeological research, has
made its impact on criticism. Among the pioneers in this field are: A.
Alt (*Essays on OT History and Religion* [Engtr 1966]), M. Noth
(*History of Israel* [Engtr, 2nd ed 1960]; *Laws in the Pentateuch and
Other Studies* [Engtr 1966]; *OT World* [Engtr 1966]); and the versatile
genius of W. F. Albright, whose influence has been exercised not only in
his written works (e.g., *From the Stone Age to Christianity* [1940];
*Archaeology and the Religion of Israel* [1942]; *Yahweh and the Gods of
Canaan* [1968]), but also through his brilliant disciples (e.g., John
Bright, History of Israel [2nd ed 1972]). But the radical differences
between the historical conclusions reached by them has emphasized the
need for more stringent methodological controls.

The situation in OT criticism is thus completely fluid, and a new school
has yet to appear whose findings will command acceptance as a fresh
“regnant hypothesis.”

***E. NT Criticism***

***1. Paul and the NT***In the NT the Pauline collection of letters
constitutes the critical pivot that Deuteronomy has long provided in OT
criticism. A new and vitally important phase of NT criticism was
launched in 1831 when F. C. Baur contributed his paper “Die
Christuspartei in der korinthischen Gemeinde” to the *Tübinger
Zeitschrift* (4 [1831], 61ff). Baur, whose theological position in
Tübingen University caused the movement he unconsciously started to be
called the “Tübingen school,” tended increasingly, as time went on, to
interpret NT history as Vatke and others interpreted OT history. The
thesis and antithesis in NT history were represented on the one hand by
Paul, with his liberal policy of the free admission of gentile believers
into the Church, and on the other by the reactionary disciples in
Jerusalem, headed by James the Just and the apostles Peter and John,
with their insistence that only by accepting circumcision and other
obligations of the Jewish law could Gentiles be admitted to the new
Israel. The conflict between the two parties he saw most clearly in 1
and 2 Corinthians, Galatians, and Romans, which were, in the Tübingen
view, the only authentic writings of Paul and moreover the oldest books
of the NT. The only other Pre-a.d. 70 NT book was Revelation, the one
surviving document representing the opposite position. The remaining NT
books reflected the outlook of a later generation, after a.d. 70, when
the old conflict was not so sharp and the heirs of the two opposed
parties tended to close their ranks in the face of imperial persecution
and Gnostic deviations. The crowning literary manifestation of this
later “synthesis” is Acts, in which Paul and the Jerusalem leaders are
portrayed as maintaining harmonious relations throughout, and which was
accordingly dated about the middle of the 2nd century.

Brilliant as the Tübingen reconstruction of NT history was, it was too
vulnerable to endure in its pristine form. The historical and textual
research of J. B. Lightfoot, A. Harnack, W. M. Ramsay, and others
undermined its case for the late dating of the Gospels and Acts, and the
antithesis that it postulated between the church of Jerusalem as a whole
and the Pauline mission proved to be much exaggerated; in particular,
the idea of a Judaizing Peter was little more than a figment of the
imagination. But NT criticism has never ceased to be influenced by the
work of the Tübingen school; witness the protest against its continuing
influence by J. Munck in *Paul and the Salvation of Mankind* (Engtr
1959). Indeed, it has enjoyed a substantial and vigorous revival at the
hands of S. G. F. Brandon (*The Fall of Jerusalem and the Christian
Church* [1951]), with arguments that, if not acceptable, demand a
freshly reasoned confutation.

Even more radical than the Tübingen criticism was that of the Dutch
scholar W. C. van Manen, who treated all the Pauline Epistles as
pseudepigraphs. His views were popularized in the English-speaking world
through his contributions to EB, but retain little more than curiosity
value.

***2. Gospel Criticism***Some rudimentary Gospel criticism was practiced
in the patristic age. The difficulty of harmonizing the order of events
in the Synoptic and Johannine Gospels was discussed by Eusebius, who, in
reply to arguments that the Evangelists disagree with one another,
points out that the events in the earlier chapters of John antedate the
imprisonment of John the Baptist (Jn. 3:24), whereas the Synoptists
record that phase of Jesus’ ministry which began after the Baptist’s
imprisonment (HE iii.24.8–13). Augustine (*De consensu evangelistarum*)
deals in detail with the relations between the Gospels; on the most
frequently quoted remark in this work (i.4), that “Mark followed Matthew
as his lackey and abbreviator, so to speak,” B. H. Streeter observed
that if only Augustine had had a synopsis of the Gospels in parallel
columns before him, he would have seen at a glance that, where Matthew
and Mark have material in common, it is not Mark who abridges it.

The Synoptic Gospels were so designated by J. J. Griesbach in 1774,
because they have so much material in common that they lend themselves
to a “synoptic” arrangement where the three can be studied side by side.
Some 606 out of Mark’s 661 verses reappear in somewhat condensed form in
Matthew; some 350 of Mark’s verses are paralleled in Luke. Matthew and
Luke, again, have about 250 verses in common that are not paralleled in
Mark. The approximate number of verses in each Gospel not paralleled in
another is 31 in Mark, 300 in Matthew, and 550 in Luke. The
interpretation of this distribution of common and special material in
the three Gospels has been the principal task of Synoptic criticism for
nearly two centuries. An epoch-making contribution to this study was
made in 1835 by C. Lachmann in *Studien und Kritiken*, when he argued
that Mark was the earliest Gospel and was a principal source of Matthew
and Luke. His main argument, that Mark’s order is the common order of
the three, is not so conclusive as has often been supposed; but his
thesis has been supported by other and weightier arguments, and enjoys
general, almost universal, acceptance. It is also fairly generally
agreed — though here the area of dissent is wider — that the common
non-Markan material of Matthew and Luke was derived by these two from
another documentary source, a compilation of sayings of Jesus, called Q
about the beginning of the 20th cent independently by J. Armitage
Robinson and J. Wellhausen. Whether the special material in Matthew and
Luke is derived from earlier documentary sources must remain very
doubtful, although we have the assurance of Luke himself that, at the
time when he wrote, many had taken in hand to draw up a narrative of the
gospel events.

Source criticism in the Fourth Gospel (cf. R. Bultmann, *The Gospel of
John* [Engtr 1971]) has never been carried out convincingly; the
criticism of this Gospel has centered round its historical character,
purpose, theology, date, and authorship. *See* articles on the
individual Gospels, and *see* Gospels, Synoptic.

III. Form Criticism

Form criticism (Ger *Formgeschichte*, “form history”) represents an
endeavor to determine the oral prehistory of written documents or
sources, and to classify the material according to the various “forms”
or categories of narrative, discourse, and so forth.

***A. In the OT*** This approach has proved particularly fruitful in the
study of the Psalms; their classification according to their principal
types (Ger *Gattungen*), where each type is related to a characteristic
life-setting — e.g., Psalms of lament and thanksgiving, both individual
and communal; royal Psalms; liturgical Psalms; etc. — has done more for
the understanding of the Psalter than almost anything else in the 20th
century.

H. Gunkel also applied form critical methods to the creation narratives
and to the apocalyptic symbolism that later drew upon the ancient
cosmogonic imagery (compare the overthrow of the primeval dragon of
chaos in Ps. 74:13f and Isa. 51:9 with the downfall of the great red
dragon of Rev. 12:3, 7–9).

More recently form criticism has illuminated the OT law codes. Albrecht
Alt pointed out in *Die Ursprünge des israelitischen Rechts* (1934) that
the pentateuchal laws fall mainly into two categories — case law
(beginning with a phrase like “If a man do so-and-so …”) and apodictic
law (“Thou shalt …,” “Thou shalt not …,” or “He that doeth so-and-so
shall surely be put to death”). The case-law category reproduces the
form known from the other ancient Near Eastern law codes; the apodictic
category is not found in these. Apodictic law does, however, resemble in
form the conditions embodied in interstate treaties of the ancient Near
East, especially treaties between an imperial power and its vassal
states. Since such treaties are essentially covenants, concluded in the
names of the deities of the high contracting parties, it is evident that
the apodictic laws of the OT (among which the Ten Commandments are the
most prominent) represent Israel’s distinctive covenant law, imposed on
the nation by Yahweh. *See also* Covenant, Book of the.

***B. In the NT*** Form criticism has been intensively applied to the
Gospels from 1919 onward. The pioneer in this study is usually reckoned
to have been Martin Dibelius, whose *Die Formgeschichte des Evangeliums*
appeared in 1919 (Engtr *From Tradition to Gospel*), followed in 1921 by
Rudolf Bultmann’s *Geschichte der synoptischen Tradition* (Engtr HST).
But several important aspects of this form-critical approach had been
anticipated as early as 1902 by Allan Menzies in *The Earliest Gospel*
(a comm on Mark).

***1. Classification***The main division in form classification of the
Gospel material is that between narratives about Jesus and sayings of
Jesus. Narratives have been subdivided into (1) pronouncement stories,
(2) miracle stories, and (3) “legends”; sayings into (1) wisdom sayings,
(2) prophetic and apocalyptic sayings, (3) law pronouncements and
community rules, (4) “I”-sayings, and (5) parables.

Pronouncement stories (which is Vincent Taylor’s name for them; Dibelius
called them “paradigms”) partake of the character of both narratives and
sayings. In them a situation develops that elicits from Jesus a pithy
saying (an “apophthegm,” in Bultmann’s terminology), which constitutes
the point of the story. Frequently the situation is a controversial one;
some action or utterance of Jesus or His disciples arouses criticism,
and Jesus replies to the criticism with a decisive pronouncement, e.g.,
“Those who are well have no need of a physician, but those who are sick;
I came not to call the righteous, but sinners” (Mk. 2:17).

A narrative may be assignable to more than one “form”; thus the incident
of the paralyzed man (Mk. 2:1–12) is a pronouncement story because the
criticism that breaks out when Jesus forgives the man’s sins is silenced
by Jesus’ pronouncement that “the Son of man has authority on earth to
forgive sins” (Mk. 2:10); but it can also be classified as a miracle
story, more specifically a healing story. Healing stories are readily
recognizable; all over the world from early times to the present day
they follow a well-established form which emphasizes the interactability
of the disease, the despair of the patient, the completeness of the
cure, and sometimes the impression produced on the bystanders. But that
a healing story conforms to this pattern tells us nothing conclusive
about its historical truth.

“Legends,” as Dibelius calls them, are such stories about Jesus as the
baptism, temptation, transfiguration, and resurrection narratives.
Bultmann, who calls them “myths,” says that they are not “historical in
character [but] are religious and edifying” (HST, p. 244). But this is
not a form critical judgment; form criticism as such makes judgments
about form, not substance.

Similarly, the classification of the sayings of Jesus according to form
can throw but little light on the authenticity of individual sayings.
Sometimes, when what is substantially the same saying or discourse has
been preserved in two different “forms,” it may be possible to penetrate
behind both to an earlier “unformed” stage of the tradition of what He
said. At other times, however, the probability is that the form in which
His words have been preserved is the form He Himself gave them. Much of
His recorded teaching reproduces the well-known forms of OT poetry, as
found, for example, in many of the prophetic oracles. Since Jesus was
recognized by His contemporaries as a prophet, it is reasonable to
conclude that here we have something approaching His *ipsissima verba*.

T. W. Manson, who himself operated very fruitfully in *The Teaching of
Jesus* (1931) with a classification of the sayings of Jesus based on the
different kinds of audience addressed, remarked in characteristically
down-to-earth language that “if Form-criticism had stuck to its proper
business, it would not have made any real stir. We should have taken it
as we take the forms of Hebrew poetry or the forms of musical
composition. But,” he went on, “Form-criticism got mixed up with two
other things. One was K. L. Schmidt’s full-scale attack on the Marcan
framework; the other was the doctrine of the *Sitz im Leben*” (*Studies
in the Gospels and Epistles* [1962], p. 5).

***2. Framework***Many form critics, and outstandingly K. L. Schmidt
(RGJ), have envisaged the Synoptic, and primarily the Markan, tradition
as consisting of originally unrelated units of narrative or discourse,
joined together into a continuous narrative by means of connecting
editorial summaries devoid of independent historical value. (It is
conceded that the Passion narrative existed as a continuous record from
early days.) An impressive answer to this argument was made in 1932 by
C. H. Dodd (repr in his NT *Studies* [1953], pp. 1ff), who argued that
the “editorial summaries” in Mark, when put together by themselves,
constitute a coherent outline of the ministry of Jesus, comparable to
those outlines of the early apostolic preaching which can be recovered
from the speeches in Acts and various passages in the Epistles.
Moreover, the general Markan picture of the ministry suggests a sequence
and development too spontaneous to be artificial and too logical to be
accidental.

***3. Life-Setting***It has become common practice among form critics to
explain the various elements in the Gospels as called forth by some
“life-setting” (Ger *Sitz im Leben*) in the early Church. For example,
the mission charge in Mt. 10 has been held to reflect the methods used
by Jewish Christians who evangelized Palestine between a.d. 30 and 66;
likewise the controversial discussions that end with some authoritative
pronouncement of Jesus are said to reflect disputes in the same period
between Jewish Christians and other Jews, or between legalist and
libertarian groups within the Christian community. An extreme example in
this last respect is the argument that the warning in Mt. 5:19 about the
man who “relaxes one of the least of these commandments and teaches men
so” is a covert attack by stricter Jewish Christians on Paul.

But one might ask why this practice was not carried on more widely and
helpfully. The circumcision question, for example, was a live issue in
Christian debate in the quarter century between a.d. 45 and 70; why has
it not left a more distinct mark in the Gospels?

Early Christians, in fact, probably made a clearer distinction between
their own views on disputed points and the teaching of Jesus than they
are sometimes given credit for. Paul, for instance, in answering
questions about marriage and divorce, distinguishes sharply between
those matters on which he can quote an authoritative saying of Jesus and
those on which he can express only his own judgment (1 Cor. 7:10, 12,
25).

It must not be forgotten that during the period a.d. 30–70 many people
could remember what Jesus had said, and attempts to claim His authority
for things that He had not in fact said could not have been so
successful as is often thought. The presence of eyewitnesses would
certainly place a check on the free creation of the early Church in the
manner presupposed by many form critics. If the evidence of Acts can be
accepted, the appeal to public recollection of the ministry of Jesus is
a recurring feature of early apostolic preaching (Acts 2:29; 10:36;
26:26).

A life-setting in the early Church — in preaching, in worship, in
debate, in the training of catechists — will certainly explain why many
Gospel incidents and sayings were preserved and recorded. When a
question arose about divorce, or fasting, or sabbath observance, or the
payment of the temple tax, it was natural to remember what Jesus had
said on the subject. But such a setting in the life of the early Church
does not account for the *origin* of the saying; its origin must be
sought in a setting in the life of Jesus.

***4. Conclusion***The sweeping claims that have been made by some form
critics for the value of their discipline must be subjected to a heavy
discount. It cannot of itself, no matter what is said to the contrary,
lead to conclusions about the historical genuineness of the material.
Even the modest claim of J. Jeremias that it helps us to remove a later
Hellenistic layer which has overlaid an earlier Palestinian layer, and
so to move back from a setting in the life of the early Church to a
setting in the life of Jesus, must be treated with caution (ExposT, 69
[1957/58], 337), if only because Palestine itself was not free of
Hellenistic influences, and there were Hellenists in the primitive
Jerusalem church, if not indeed in the entourage of Jesus Himself.

Form criticism does, however, make one more aware of the influence of
early Christian life and witness on the shaping of the Gospel tradition.
It underlines the inadequacy of documentary hypotheses alone to account
for the composition of the four Gospels, and provides a fresh
classification of their material which sometimes, when comparative study
is possible, helps one to penetrate behind written sources to the oral
stage of the tradition. It then becomes clearer than ever that no
discernible stratum of Gospel tradition, written or oral, knows any
Jesus but the one whom the NT presents as Messiah and Son of God.

A particular variety of form criticism relates to the study of the
structure of the NT epistles. An impetus to this approach was given by
Paul Schubert in his *Form and Function of the Pauline Thanksgiving*
(1939). Until this work appeared, it was widely supposed that, apart
from the conventional salutation and thanksgiving at the beginning and
the greetings at the end, Paul’s letters were unstructured for the most
part; study since then has brought to light fairly well-defined
structures in the main body of the letters. It is precarious, however,
to use this recognition of structural forms as a means of removing as
unauthentic passages which do not fit these structures easily; the
structural forms are Paul’s servants, not his masters.

IV. Redaction Criticism

What is called redaction criticism has been pressed into service more
recently to do more justice to the authors and redactors of biblical
documents than they received in the heyday of source criticism and form
criticism. This discipline has been applied to various parts of the OT,
as for example to the Chronicler’s use of the material which he
inherited — much of it still extant in earlier OT writings — so as to
present his distinctive understanding of Israel’s history. But it has
proved particularly fruitful in Gospel study, with reference to the way
in which the individual evangelists shaped and presented, in accordance
with their distinctive perspectives, the “tradition” which was delivered
to them.

Thus, the First Evangelist, perhaps the spokesman of a school or other
Christian community in a specific area, is well described as a “scribe …
trained for the kingdom of heaven … who brings out of his treasure what
is new and what is old” (Mt. 13:52); he arranges the teaching of Jesus
according to its subject matter in composite discourses which might
serve, among other things, as a manual of instruction for catechists and
catechumens. He is clearly interested in the Church as a fellowship in
which the teaching of Jesus is to be embodied and handed down from His
resurrection to the end of the age. Mark not only writes to encourage
Christians suffering for their faith (in Rome and elsewhere) to think of
this as taking up their cross in the way of Jesus; he also gives
prominence to the “messianic secret” — the veiling of the true nature of
Jesus’ person and ministry even from His disciples until it is divulged
in His death, as is symbolically indicated by the rending of the temple
veil and by the centurion’s confession, “Truly this man was the Son of
God!” (Mk. 15:38f). Luke views the ministry of Jesus at the midpoint of
time as the continuation and consummation of the mighty works and
prophetic words in which God revealed Himself in OT times and also as
being itself continued and amplified in the apostolic witness. John
restates the essential gospel without changing its essence; its
permanent and universal validity is brought out by its portrayal of
Jesus as the eternal Logos or self-expression of God, incarnated in a
real human life, active now in the new, spiritual creation as earlier in
the old, material creation. Here, in the ministry and supremely in the
death of Jesus, the glory of God is manifested to all who are given the
power of seeing it.

V. Criticism and Christology

In all this we have dealt with criticism as it affects the external
features of the biblical record, rather than its revelational essence.
But, since the biblical revelation is so closely interwoven with the
historical record, historical criticism in particular can become
extremely relevant to the heart of the biblical message. Above all, when
we consider the biblical presentation of Christ’s incarnation, earthly
ministry, death, and resurrection as the midpoint of history, historical
criticism, when it sets to work on the gospel story, may affect our
understanding of the gospel itself. This is no reason for telling
historical criticism to approach thus far and no farther; on the
contrary, we must be grateful for historical criticism and all the help
it can give in showing the historical Jesus in His own times. “It would
seem that the only healthy attitude for conservatives is to welcome
criticism and be willing to join in it. No view of Scripture can
indefinitely be sustained if it runs counter to the facts. That the
Bible claims inspiration is patent. The problem is to define the nature
of that inspiration in the light of the phenomena contained therein” (E.
F. Harrison, in C. F. H. Henry, ed, *Revelation and the Bible* [1958],
p. 239).

Historical critics are not free from the influence of their intellectual
milieu, and it is not to be greatly wondered at if Jesus, who a couple
of generations ago was portrayed as the ideal of nineteenth-century
liberalism, tends to be pictured today as a twentieth-century
existentialist or as a social revolutionary. It takes a bold and
independent spirit like that of Albert Schweitzer to break loose from
contemporary influences in this regard as in others; but even boldness
and independence are no guarantee of truth, and Schweitzer’s portrayal
of Jesus as an apocalyptic visionary (cf. QHJ) has inadequacies of its
own.

The tone and thrust of biblical criticism cannot remain unaffected by
the critic’s own attitude; it will in the end make some difference
whether or not he adopts a theistic viewpoint in harmony with that which
informs the biblical record. And when the critical issue relates to the
Jesus of history it will in the end make a considerable difference
whether the critic is content to know Christ “after the flesh” or shares
the estimate of Him reflected in the apostolic witness.

Criticism can carry us so far in bringing us face to face with the Jesus
of history; but when it has brought us there, it brings us up against
the christological question: “Who then is this?” The various critical
presentations or reconstructions of the Jesus of history have been
deeply influenced by the critics’ Christology, realized or unrealized,
false or true. That is why Lives of Jesus so often tell us more about
their authors than they do about their subject; as T. W. Manson put it,
“By their Lives of Jesus ye shall know them” (C. W. Dugmore, ed,
*Interpretation of the Bible* [1944], p. 92). If the Jesus of history is
the Christ of the Bible, when we are brought to Him we are brought to
the very vantage point from which history must be reviewed if it is to
be understood aright. Criticism has then done its perfect work, and
Christology takes over.

F. F. Bruce

