---
title: "Troas"
pdf: "troas.pdf"
description: "On the second missionary journey, Paul and Silas came to Troas after being forbidden to preach the Word of God in Asia (Acts 16:6)."
template: lesson.jade
---


**Bithynia 0**

**Troas**

Troas was a city in Turkey on the Aegean shore, 10 miles (16.1
kilometers) south of the ancient site of Troy, scene of the Trojan War
immortalized by the poet Homer. Both the ancient city of Troy and the
Roman city of Troas are on the Troad Plain, an area about 10 miles (16.1
kilometers) in length bordering the sea. Paul sailed from Troas into
Macedonia in response to the call “Come over to Macedonia and help us”
(Acts 16:9).

The Seleucid king Antigonus founded the city about 300 BC and named it
after himself. Later, the name was changed to Alexandria Troas in honor
of Alexander the Great, who had passed through it in pursuit of the
Persians. The city became a Roman colony when Roman influence replaced
that of the Greeks. According to some scholars, Julius Caesar envisioned
Troas as his eastern capital, and Constantine considered making it his
capital before deciding on Byzantium instead. It was an important
seaport during the time of Paul because it was the easiest and shortest
route from Asia to Europe.

On the second missionary journey, Paul and Silas came to Troas after
being forbidden to preach the Word of God in Asia (Acts 16:6). Although
this trip to Europe is not stressed in Acts, many scholars think this
short voyage was as important historically as Caesar’s invasion of
Britain. After this vision, Paul and Silas embarked, passed the island
of Samothrace, and landed at Neapolis (modern Kavalla), their first stop
in Europe (v 11).

We know that a church must have been established in Troas because of
events that are described later. After his mission in Ephesus was
finished, Paul stayed and preached the gospel in Troas (2 Cor 2:12). On
his way to Jerusalem for the last time, Paul stopped in Troas, where he
preached until after midnight, causing one of the young men to fall
asleep and fall from a window to his death. But Paul called him back to
life and continued on with the meeting until morning (Acts 20:6–12).
Paul visited Troas again and left behind a cloak and parchments,
presumably when he was arrested there. In a letter to Timothy, Paul asks
him to bring these to him at his prison in Rome (2 Tm 4:13).

Elwell, W. A., & Comfort, P. W. (2001). Tyndale Bible dictionary.
Tyndale reference library (1275). Wheaton, Ill.: Tyndale House
Publishers.

