---
title: "Tyre"
pdf: "tyre.pdf"
description: "When Paul and Barnabas traveled from Antioch to Jerusalem, they went through Phoenicia to tell the believers how God had brought Gentiles to faith (Acts 15:3)."
template: lesson.jade
---


**Tyre 2**

Tyre
====

Tyre was an ancient Phoenician city-state located on the Mediterranean
coast 20 miles (32.2 kilometers) south of Sidon and 23 miles (37
kilometers) north of Acre. Tyre consisted of two major parts: an older
port city on the mainland and an island city a half mile (.8 kilometer)
from the coast where the majority of the population lived. According to
Herodotus,

Tyre was founded around 2700 BC. Its earliest historical attestations,
however, are references in a 15th-century Ugaritic document and an
Egyptian citation from the same period. Tyre first appears in the Bible
in the list of cities that comprised Asher’s inheritance (Joshua 19:29).
At that time, it was described as a “strong city” and was evidently
never conquered by the Israelites (2 Sam. 24:7). Tyre was most
significant as a mercantile center, with maritime contacts throughout
the Mediterranean region and overland traffic with Mesopotamia and
Arabia.

During David’s and Solomon’s monarchies, Tyre was a strong commercial
ally of Israel. Both David and Solomon contracted with Hiram of Tyre for
timber, building materials, and skilled laborers, for which they
provided Tyre with agriculture produce (2 Sam. 5:11; 1 Kings 5:1–11; 1
Chr 14:1; 2 Chr 2:3–16). After the division of the kingdom, Tyre
evidently maintained friendly relations with Israel for some time.
Ahab’s wife, Jezebel, was the daughter of “Ethbaal, king of the
Sidonians,” a king who is known elsewhere as Ithobal of Tyre (1 Kings
16:31; cf. Menander). At some point, however, the pressure of Assyrian
and Babylonian aggression dissolved the alliance, so that by the time of
Samaria’s fall, Tyre and Israel were no longer aligned and shortly
thereafter became enemies.

During the later kingdom period, Tyre was the focus for some of the
strongest prophetic denunciations recorded in Scripture (Is 23:1–18; Jer
25:22; 27:1–11; Ez 26:1–19; Jl 3:4–8; Am 1:9–10). Tyre’s condemnation
was justified for several reasons. Because of its commercial
significance, Tyre was the focal point of Assyrian and Egyptian
rivalries. Tyre managed, however, to play these rivals against each
other while building its wealth and exploiting its neighbors.
Additionally, the city of Tyre was not only a city of unscrupulous
merchants but also a center of religious idolatry and sexual immorality.

Foremost among Tyre’s sins was pride induced by its great wealth and
strategic location. Ezekiel’s prophecy against Tyre offers a detailed
picture of the city, its commercial empire, its sin, and its eventual
demise (Ez 26:1–28; 29:18–20). The final destruction of Tyre did not
come for almost 1,900 years (AD 1291), though it was besieged by
Nebuchadnezzar for 13 years (587–574 BC), and conquered by Alexander the
Great in 332 BC after a seven-month siege, during which he built a
causeway out to the island. Ezekiel’s description of Tyre’s arrogance
can be compared to that of Satan’s, with Tyre’s words “I am a God, I sit
in the seat of God” (KJV) being the expression that led to the fall of
both Satan and Tyre (Ezek. 28:2).

Despite Alexander’s destruction of the city, Tyre had regained
prominence by the NT period, being equal to or greater than Jerusalem in
terms of population and commercial power. Jesus visited the region
surrounding Tyre during his early ministry, healing the Syrophoenician
woman’s daughter (Mt 15:21–28; Mk 7:24–31). Jesus also compared the
Galilean towns that had rejected him to Tyre and Sidon, suggesting that
the Galileans would bear greater responsibility for their rejection
because of the number of miracles he had performed among them (Lk
10:13–14).

In Acts, the name *Tyre* occurs twice in this context (21:3, 7) and once
in 12:20. The city was located in Phoenicia (modern Lebanon); Jewish
believers who were scattered after the death of Stephen traveled as far
as Phoenicia (Acts 11:19) and acquainted the people with Christ’s
gospel. When Paul and Barnabas traveled from Antioch to Jerusalem, they
went through Phoenicia to tell the believers how God had brought
Gentiles to faith (Acts 15:3). These believers were very happy to hear
about the growth of the church among the Gentiles. The city of Tyre,
which enjoyed colonial status in Roman times, may have had a
Jewish-Gentile congregation when Paul came to visit. We know little
about this church, but in post-apostolic times Tyre became a major
center of the Christian faith (the fulfillment of Ps. 87:4).

